THE 



PEARL OE GrREAT PRICE: 



BEING A 

t 



J 



CHOICE SELECTION 



FROM THE 



REVELATIONS, TRANSLATIONS, AND NARRATIONS 



* 

■ 

OF 



JOSEPH 



FIRST PROPHET, SEER, AND REVELATOR TO THE CHURCH OF JE8TJ9 CHRIST 



OP LATTER-DAY SAINTS. 



LIVERPOOL: 
PUBLISHED BY F* D. RICHARDS, 15, 



9 



- 

PREFACE. 

o 

■ 



The following compilation has been induced by the repeated solicita- 
tions of several friends of the publisher, who are desirous to be put 
in possession of the very important articles contained therein. Most 
of the Revelations composing this work were published at early periods 
of the Church, when the circulation of its journals was so very limit- 
ed as to render them comparatively unknown at present, except to a 
few who have treasured up the productions of the Church with great 
care from the beginning. A smaller portion of this work has never 
before appeared in print ; and altogether it is presumed, that true 
believers in the Divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, will 
appreciate this little collection of precious truths as a Pearl of Great 
Price that will increase their ability to maintain and to defend the 
holy feith by becoming possessors of it. 

Although not adapted, nor designed, as a pioneer of the faith among 
unbelievers, still it will commend itself to all careful students of the 
scriptures, as detailing many important facts which are therein only al- 
luded to t or entirely unmentioned, but consonant with the whole tenor 
of the revealed will of God ; and, to the beginner in the Gospel, will 



v | PREFACE* 



add confirmatory evidence of the rectitude of his faith, by showing 
him that the doctrines and ordinances thereof are the same as were 
revealed to Adam for his salvation after his expulsion from the gar- 
den, and the same that he handed down and caused to be taught 
to bis generations after him, as the only means appointed of God by 
which the generations of men may regain His presence. 

Nor do we conceive it possible for any unprejudiced person to arise 
from a careful perusal of this work, without being deeply impressed 
with a sense of the Divine calling, and holy ordination, of the man 
by whom these revelations, translations, and narrations have been com- 
municated to us. As impervious as the minds of men may be at 
pi^sent to these convictions, the day is not far distant when sinners, 
as well as Saints, will know that Joseph Smith was one of the great- 
est men that ever lived upon the earth, and that under God he was 
the Prophet and founder of the dispensation of the fulness of times, 
in which will be gathered together into one all things which are in 
Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth. 



1 



Franklin D. Richabds. 

■pool, 

July llth, 1851. 



V 

15, Wilton Street, Liverpool, 



^ — , 




CONTENTS 



Extracts from the Prophecy of Euoch, containing also a Revelation of the Gospel 
unto our father Adam, after he was driven out from the Garden of Eden. Reveal- 
ed to Joseph Smith, December, 1830 1 , „, 1 



The words of God, which he spake unto Moses at the time when Moses was caught 
up into an exceeding high mountain, and he Baw God face to face, and he talked 
with him, and the glory of God was npon Moses ; therefore Moses could endure 
HiB presence. Revealed to Joseph Smith, Jnne, 1830 

The Book op Abraham.— A Translation of some Ancient Records, that have fallen 
into our hands from the Catacombs of Egypt, purporting to be the writings of 
Abraham while he was in Egypt, called the Book of Abraham, written by his own 
hand upon Papyrus- Translated from the Papyrus by Joseph Smith ... 19 



8 



An Extract from a Translation of the Bible— being the twenty-fourth chapter of 
Matthew, commencing with the last Terse of the twenty-third chapter. By the 
Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, Joseph Smith ... 30 

A Key to the Revelations of St. John. By Joseph Smith **• ... ... 38 

A Revelation and Prophecy by the Prophet, Seer, and Tic vela tor, Joseph Smith. 
Given December 25th, 1832 35 



Extracts trom the History of Joseph Smith, — Containing an Account of the 
first Visions and Revelations which he received j also of his discovering and obtain- 
ing tho plates of gold which contain the Record of Mormon — its translation — his 
baptism, and ordination by the Angel;— Items of Doctrine from the Revelations 
and Commandments of the Church 



*#. ... ... ... ... ... 



v — . CONTENTS, 

From the Doctrine aim> Covenants op the Chuboh.— 

Commandment to the Church concerning Baptism . « 

The Doties of the Members after they are received by Bapttsm «P 

Method of administering the Sacrament of the Lord's Sapper ... ib. 

The Duties of the Elders. Priests, Teacher*, Deacons, and Members of the 

Church of Christ ' * 

On Priesthood ■ " * & 

The CalUng and Duties of the Twelve Apostles 

The Calling and Duties of the Seventy • 

ib 

Extract from a Revelation given July, 1830 

Rise of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints * 63 

"Times and Seasoned VoL HI, page 709 55 

56 

TJruth 



INDEX TO WOOD-CUTS. 

A Facsimile from the Book of Abraham. No. 1 »• 

Ditto ditt0 » 2 

Ditto ditto v 3 



.'. - 18 

»•« 1.4 »** 24 




$eari of #reat 1$xm. 



EXTRACTS FROM THE PROPHECY OF ENOCH, CONTAINING ALSO A REVELATION 
OF THE GOSPEL UNTO OUR FATHER ADAM, AFTER HE WAS DRIVEN OUT 
FROM THE GARDEN OF EDEN. 

Eeveahd to Joseph Smith? December, 1830 

" And Enoch continued his speech, saying, The Lord which spake with me, 
the same is the God of heaven, and He is my God, and your God, and ye are 
my brethren, and why counsel ye yourselves, and deny the God of heaven ? 

The heavens hath he made : the earth is his footstool, and the foundation 
thereof is his : Behold he hath laid it, an host of men hath he brought in 
upon the face thereof. And death hath come upon our fathers : nevertheless 
we know them, and cannot deny, and even the first of all we know, even Adam. 
For a book of remembrance we have written among us, according to the 
pattern given by the finger of God : and it is given in our own language. 

And as Enoch spake forth the words of God, the people trembled, and could 
not stand before his presence : and he said unto them, because that Adam 
fell we are : and by his fall came death ; and we are made partakers of 
misery and woe. Behold Satan hath come among the children of men, and 
tempteth them to worship him : and men have become carnal, sensual, and 
devilish, and are shut out from the presence of God. But God hath made 
known unto my fathers, that all men must repent. 

And he called upon our father Adam by his own voice, saying, I am God : 
I made the world, and men before they were. And he also said unto him, if 
thou wilt turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice, and believe, and repent 
of all thy transgressions, and be baptized even by water, in the name of mine 
Only Begotten Son, which is full of grace and truth, which is Jesus Christ, 
the only name which shall be given under heaven, whereby salvation shall 
come unto the children of men ; ye shall ask all things in His name, and 
whatever ye shall ask, it shall be given. 
And our father Adam spake unto the Lord, and said, Why is it that men 

b 

4 



■1 



2 



■ 

must repent and be baptized by water ? And the Lord said unto Adam, 
Behold I have forgiven thee thy trangressions in the garden of Eden. Thence 
came the saying abroad among the people, That Christ hath atoned for origi- 
nal guilt wherein the sins of the parents cannot be answered upon the heads 
of the children, for they are whole from the foundation of the world. 

Lid the Lonl spake unto Adam, saying, InaBimich as thy chddren are 
conceived in sin, even so when they begin to grow up, sin conceiveth m their 
hearts and they taste the bitter, that they may know to prize the gbod. 
And it is given unte -them to know good from evil : wherefore they are agents 
unto themselves, and I have given unto you another law and commandment : 
Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must re- 
Tent or they can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean 
thing can dwell there, or dwell in His presence ; for in the language of Adam 
Man of Holiness is His name ; and the name of His Only Begotten, is the 
Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge which shall come. 

I rive unto you a commandment to teach these things freely untojouf 
children saying That, inasmuch as they were born into the world by the tall 
which bringeth death, by Water and Blood and the Spirit, which I have made, 
and so become of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again of W ater 
and the Spirit, and cleansed by Blood, even the Blood of mine Only Begotten, 
into the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven ; that ye may be sanctified from 
all sin, and enjoy &e words of eternal life in this world, and eternal hie m 
7oM to come, even immortal glory : For by the Water ye know the com- 
mandment ; by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the Blood ye are sanctified 
that in you is given the record of heaven ;— the Comforter ;— the peaceaoie 
is\f immoral glory ;-the truth of all things ;-that which quiekeneth 
lulings, which maketh alive all things ;-that which knoweth all things, 
and hath all power, according to wisdom, mercy, truth, justice, and judgment. 

And now, behold, I say unto you, this is the plan of salvation unto all men : 
the Blood of mine Only Begotten, which shall come in the meridian of time 
And behold all things have their likeness, and all things ore created and 
made to bear of me, both things which are temporal, and things which are 
Spiritual ; things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the 
earth; and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the 
earth,' both above and beneath : all things bear record of me. 

And it came to pass when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our fcuher that 
Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, 
and was carried down into the Water, and was laid under the Water, and was 
forth out of the Water : And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit ot 
[ „„ „ tended upon him; and thus he was born of the Spirit, and he be- 
came quickened in the inner man : And he heard a voice out of heaven, say- 
ing Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. 

This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and for ever : 
and thou art after the order of Him who was without beginning of days or end 



of years, from all eternity. Behold thou art one in me, a son of God ; and 
thus may all become my sons. Amen." 

n And it came to pass that Enoch continued his speech, saying, behold, our 
father Adam taught these things, and many have believed and become' the 

looking forth with fear, in torment, for the fiery indignation of the wrath of 
God to be poured out upon them. And from that time forth Enoch began 
to prophesy, saying unto the people, that, as I was journeying, and stood 
upon the place Manhujah, I cried unto the Lord ; and there came a voice 
out of the heaven, saying, turn ye, and get ye upon the mount Simeon. 
And it came to pass that I turned and went upon the mount ; and as I stood 
upon the mount, I beheld the heavens open, and I was clothed upon with 
glory, and I saw the Lord : he stood before my face, and he talked with me, 
even as a man talks one with another, face to fcc© ; and he said unto me, 
look, and I will shew unto you the world for the space of many generations. 

And it came to pass that I beheld the valley Shum, and lo, a great people 
which dwelt in tents, which were the people of Shum. And again the Lord 
said unto me, look ; and I looked towards the north, and I beheld the people 
of Canaan, which dwelt in tents. And the Lord said unto me, prophesy ; 
and I prophesied, saying, behold the people of Canaan, which are numerous, 
shall go forth in battle array against the people of Shum, and shall slay them 
that they shall be utterly destroyed ; and the people of Canaan shall divide 
themselves in the land, and the land shall be barren and unfruitful, and none 
other people shall dwell there but the people of Canaan ; for behold the Lord 
shall curse the land with much heat, and the barrenness thereof shall go 
forth forever ; and there was blackness came upon all the children of Canaan, 
that they were despised among all people. 

And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me, look ; and I looked and 
beheld the land of Sharon, and the land of Enoch, and the land of G inner, 
and the land of Heni, and the land of Shem, and the land of Haner, and 
the land of Hanannihah, and all the inhabitants thereof; and the Lord said 
unto me, go to this people and say unto them, repent, lest I come out and 
smite them with a curse, and they die. And he gave unto me a command- 
ment that I should baptize in the name of the Father, and the Son, which 
is full of grace and truth, and the Holy Spirit, which bears record of the Fa- 
ther and the Son. 

And it came to pass that Enoch continued to call upon all the people, save 
it were the people of Canaan, to repent ; and so great was the faith of Enoch, 
that he led the people of God, and their enemies came to battle against them ; 
and he spake the word of the Lord, and the earth trembled, and the moun- 
tains fled, even according to his command ; and the rivers of water were 
turned out of their course ; and the roar of the lion was heard out of the 
wilderness ; and all nations feared greatly, so powerful was the word of 
Enoch, and so great was the power of language which God had given him. 

b 2 



There also came up a land out of the depth of the sea, and so great was the 
few of the enemies of the people of God, that they fled and stood afar off, 
and went upon the land which came up out of the depths of the sea. And 
the giants of the land, also, stood afar off; and there went forth a curse upon 
all the people which fought against God: and from that time forth there 
were wars and bloodsheds among them ; but the Lord came and dwelt with 
His people, and they dwelt in righteousness. The fear of the Lord was 
upon all nations, so great was the glory of the Lord, which was upon His 
people. And the Lord blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the 
mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish. 

And the Lord called His people Zion, because they were of one heart and 
one mind, and dwelt in righteousness ; and there was no poor among them ; 
and Enoch continued his preaching in righteousness unto the people of God. 
And it came to pass in his days, that he built a city that was called the City 
of Holiness ■ even Zion. And it came to pass that Enoch talked with the 
Lord • and he said unto the Lord, surely Zion shall dwell in safety forever. 
But' Ae Lord said unto Enoch, Zion have I blessed, but the residue of the 
people have I cursed. And it came to pass that the Lord shewed unto Enoch 
all the inhabitants of the earth; and he beheld, and lo, Zion, in process of 
time, was taken up into heaven ! And the Lord said unto Enoch, behold 
my abode for ever. 

And Enoch also beheld the residue of the people which were the sons ot 
Adam ; and they were a mixture of all the seed of Adam, save it were the 
seed of Cain, for the seed of Cain were black, and had not place among them. 
And after that Zion was taken up into heaven, Enoch beheld, and lo, all the 
nations of the earth wefe before him ; and there came generation upon genera- 
tion ; and Enoch was high and lifted up, even in the bosom of the Father, 
and the Son of Man ; and behold, the power of Satan was upon all the face 
of the earth. And he saw angels descending out of heaven ; and he heard a 
loud voice saying, woe, woe be unto the inhabitants of the earth 1 And he 
beheld Satan ; and he had a great chain in his hand, and it veiled the whole 
face of the earth with darkness ; and lie looked up and laughed, and his an- 
gels rejoiced. And Enoch beheld angels descending out of heaven, bearing 
testimony of the Father, and Son ; and the Holy Spirit fell on many, and 
they were caught up by the powers of heaven into Zion. 

And it came to pass that the God of heaven looked upon the residue of the 
people, and He wept ; and Enoch bore record of it, saying, how is it the hea- 
vens weep, and shed forth their tears as the rain upon the mountains ? And 
Enoch said unto the Lord, how is it that you can weep, seeing you are holy, 
and from all eternity to all eternity ? and were it possible that man could num- 
ber the particles of the earth, and millions of earths like this, it would not be 
a beginning to the number of your creations ; and your curtains are stretched 
out still ; and yet you are there, and your bosom is there ; and also you are just ; 
you are merciful and kind forever ; you have taken Zion to your own bosom, 



from all your creations, from all eternity to all eternity, and nought but 
peace, justice, and truth, is the habitation of your throne; and mercy shall 
go before your face and have no end : how is it that you can weep? 

The Lord said unto Enoch, behold these your brethren : they are the work- 
manship of my own hands, and I gave unto them their knowledge, in the day 
I created them ; and in the garden of Eden, gave I unto man his agency : 
and unto your brethren have I said, and also given commandment, that they 
should love one another, and that they should choose me, their Father ; but 
behold, they are without affection ; and they hate their own blood ; and the 
fire of my indignation is kindled against them ; and in my hot displeasure 
will I send in the floods upon them, for my fierce anger is kindled against 
them. Behold, I am God ; Man of Holiness is my Name ; Man of Counsel is 
my Name ; and Endless, and Eternal is my Name, also. Wherefore, I can 
stretch forth my hands and hold all the creations which I have made ; and 
my eye can pierce them also ; and among all the workmanship of my hand 
there has not been so great wickedness as among your brethren ; but behold, 
their sins shall be upon the heads of their fathers : Satan shall be their fa- 
ther, and misery shall be their doom ; and the whole heavens shall weep over 
them, even all the workmanship of my hands : wherefore should not the hea- 
vens weep, seeing these shall suffer ? But behold, these which your eyes 
are upon shall perish in the floods ; and behold, I will shut 'them up : a pri- 
son have I prepared for them. And that which I have chosen has pleaded 
before my face. Wherefore, He suffers for their sins, inasmuch as they will 
repent in the day that my Chosen shall return unto me, and until that day 
they shall be in torment ; wherefore, for this shall the heavens weep, yea, 
and all the workmanship of my hands. 

And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Enoch, and told Enoch all 
the doings of the children of men ; wherefore Enoch knew, and looked upon 
their wickedness, and their misery, and wept and stretched forth his arms, 
and his heart swelled wide as eternity ; and his bowels yearned, and all eter- 
nity shook. And Enoch saw Noah, also, and his family : that the posterity 
of all the sons of Noah should be saved with a temporal salvation : wherefore 
he saw that Noah built an ark ; and the Lord smiled upon it, and held it in 
His hand ; but upon the residue of the wicked came the floods, and swallowed 
them up. And as Enoch saw thus, he had bitterness of soul, and wept over 
his brethren, and said unto the heavens, I will refuse to be comforted ; but 
the Lord said unto Enoch, lift up your heart, and be glad ; and look. And it 
came to pass that Enoch looked ; and from Noah, he beheld all the families 
of the earth ; and he cried unto the Lord, saying, when shall the day of the 
Lord come ? When shall the blood of the Righteous be shed, that all they 
that mourn may be sanctified, and have eternal life ? And the Lord said, it 
shall be in the meridian of time, in the days of wickedness and vengeance* 
And behold, Enoch saw the day of the coming of the Son of Man, even in 
the flesh ; and his soul rejoiced, saying, the Righteous is lifted up, and the 



I am in 



Lamb is slain from the foundation of the world ; and 
the bosom of the Father, and behold, Zion is with me ! 

And it came to pass that Enoch looked upon the earth ; and he heard a voice 
from the bowels thereof, saying, woe, woe is me, the mother of men I I am 
pained I I am weary because of the wickedness of my children ! when shall I 
rest and be cleansed from the filthhiess which has gone forth out of me ? when 
^ilimy Creator sanctify me, that I may rest, and righteousness for a season 
abide upon my face ? And when Enoch heard the earth mourn, he wept, and 
cried unto the Lord, saying, O Lord, will you not have compassion upon the 
earth ? Will you not bless the children of Noah ? And it came to pass that 
Enoch continued his cry unto the Lord, saying, I ask you, O Lord, in the 
name of your Only Begotten, even Jesus Christ, that you will have mercy 
upon Noah and his seed, that the earth may never more be covered by the 
floods <> And the Lord could not withhold ; and He covenanted with Enoch, 
and swore unto him with an oath, that He would stay the floods ; that Ho 
would call upon the children of Noah : and He sent forth an unalterable de- 
cree that a remnant of his seed should always be found among all nations, 
while the earth should stand : and the Lord said, blessed is he through whose 
seed Messiah shall come ; for He says, I am Messiah, the King of Zion, the 
Rock of Heaven, which is broad as eternity ; whoso comes in at the gate and 
climbs up by me shall never fall : wherefore, blessed are they of whom I have 
spoken, for $hey shall come forth with songs of everlasting joy. 

And it came to pass that Enoch cried unto the Lord, saying, when the 
Son of Man comes in the flesh, shall the earth rest ? I pray you shew me 
these things. And the Lord said unto Enoch, look ; and he looked and be- 
held the Son of Man lifted upon the cross, after the manner of men ; and he 
heard a loud voice ; and the heavens were veiled ; and all the creation of God 
mourned ; and the earth groaned ; and the rocks were rent ; and the saints 
arose and were crowned at the right hand of the Son of Man, with crowns of 
glory ; and as many of the spirits as were in prison came forth, and stood on 
the right hand of God ; and the remainder were reserved in chains of dark- 
ness until the judgment of the great day, And again Enoch wept and cried 
unto the Lord, saying, when shall the earth rest? "And Enoch beheld the 
Son of Man ascend up unto the Father : and he called unto the Lord, saying, 
will you not come again upon the earth, for inasmuch as you are God, and I 
know you, and you have sworn unto me, and commanded me that I should 
ask in the name of your Only Begotten, you have made me, and given unto 
me a right to your throne, and not of myself, but through your own grace, 
wherefore, I ask you if you will not come again on the earth? 

And the Lord said unto Enoch, as I live, even so will I come in the last 
days, in the days of wickedness and vengeance, to fulfil the oath which I have 
made unto you concerning the children of Noah : and the day shall come that 
the earth shall rest, but before that day, shall the heavens be darkened, and a 
veil of darkness shall cover the earth ; and the heavens shall shake, and also 



the earth ; and great tribulations shall be among the children of men, bnt my 
people will I preserve : and righteousness will I send down out of heaven : and 
truth will I send forth out of the earth, to bear testimony of my Only Begot- 
ten ; His resurrection from the dead ; yea, and also the resurrection of all 
men ; and righteousness and truth will I cause to sweep the earth as with a 
flood, to gather out my own elect from the four quarters of the earth, unto a 
place which I shall prepare ; a Holy City, that my people may gird up their 
loins, and be looking forth for the time of my coming ; for 
Tabernacle, and it shall he called Z:on, a New Jerusalem. And the Lord said 
unto Enoch, then shall you and all your city meet them there, and we will 
receive them into our bosom, and they shall see us ; and we will fall upon 
their necks, and they shall fall upon our necks, and we will kiss each other ; 
and there shall be my abode, and it shall be Zion, which shall come forth out 
of all the creations which I have made ; and for the space of a thousand 
years shall the earth rest. 

And it came to pass that Enoch saw the days of the coming of the Son of 
Man, in the last days, to dwell on the earth in righteousness for the space of 
a thousand years ; but before that day he saw great tribulations among th# 
wicked ; and he, also saw the sea, that it was troubled, and mens hearts fail- 
ing them, looking forth with fear for the judgments of the Almighty God, 
which should come upon the wicked. And the Lord shewed Enoch all 
things, even unto the end of the world ; and he saw the day of the righteous, 
the hour of their redemption, and received a fulness of joy : and all the days 
of Zion, in the days of Enoch, were three hundred and sixty-five years : and 
Enoch and all his people walked with God, and he dwelt in the midst of Zion : 
and it came to pass that Zion was not, for God received it up into His own 
bosom ; and from thence went forth the saying, Zio;n is fled." 



■ 



THE WORDS OF GOD, WHICH HE SPAKE UNTO MOSES AT THE TIME WHEN 
MOSES WAS CAUGHT UP INTO AN EXCEEDING HIGH MOUNTAIN, AND HE SAW 
GOD PACE TO FACE, AND HE TALKED WITH HIM, AND THE GLORY OF GOD 
WAS UPON MOSES ; THEREFORE MOSES COULD ENDURE HIS PRESENCE. 

Revealed to Joseph Smith, June, 1830. 

" And God spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, I am the Lord God Almighty, 
and Endless is my name, for I am without beginning of days or end of 
years ; and is not this Endless? And, behold, thou art my son, wherefore 
look and I will show thee the workmanship of mine hands, but not all, for 
my works are without end, and also my words, for they never cease ; where- 
fore/ no man can behold all my works, except he behold all my glory ; and no 
«nan can behold all my glory and afterwards remain in the flesh. And I 
have a work for thee, Moses, my son ; and thou art in the similitude of mine 
Only Begotten ; and mine Only Begotten is and shall be the Saviour, for he 
is full of grace and truth ; but there is no God besides me, and all things are 
present with me, for I know theni all. And now, behold, this one thing 1 
shew unto thee, Moses, my, son, for thou art in the world, and now I show 
it unto thee. 

And it came to pass that Moses looked and beheld the world upon which 
he was created, and Moses beheld the world and the ends thereof, and all the 
children of men which were, and which are created : of the same he greatly 
marvelled and wondered. And the presence of God withdrew from Moses, 
that his glory was not upon Moses ; and Moses was left unto himself. And 
as he was left unto himself, he fell unto the earth* And it came to pass that 
it was for the space of many hours before Moses did again receive his natural 
strength like unto man ; and he said unto himself, now, for this cause I 
know that man is nothing, which thing I never had supposed ; but now mine 
eyes, mine own eyes, but not mine eyes, for mine eyes could not have beheld; 
for I should have withered and died in his presence ; but his glory was upon 
me ; and I beheld his face, for I was transfigured before him. 

And it came to pass that when Moses had said these words, behold, Satan 
came tempting him, saying, Moses, son of man, worship me. And it came to 
pass that Moses looked upon Satan and said, who art thou ? for behold, I am 
a son of God, in the similitude of his Only Begotten ; and where is thy glory 
that I should worship thee ? for behold, I could not look upon God, except 
His glory should come upon me, and I were strengthened before him. But 
I can look upon thee in the natural man. Is it not so, surely? Blessed is 
the name of my God, for His Spirit hath not altogether withdrawn from me, 



or else where is thy glory ? for it is darkness unto me, and I am judge be- 
tween thee and God ; for God said unto me, worship God, for Him only ehalt 
thou serve. Get thou hence, Satan ; deceive me not, for God said unto me, 
* thou art after the similitude of mine Only Begotten. 1 And he likewise gave 
unto me commandments, when he called unto me out of the 4 \ burning bush " 
saying, call upon God in the name of mine Only Begotten, and worship me. 
And again Moses said, I will not cease to call upon God ; I have these things 
to inquire of him, for his glory has been upon me, wherefore I can judge be- 
tween Him and thee. Depart hence, Satan. 

And now, when Moses had said these words, Satan cried with a loud voice 
and went upon the earth, and commanded, saying, I am the Only Begotten, 
worship me. And it came to pass that Moses began to fear exceedingly; and 
as he began to fear he saw the bitterness of hell; nevertheless, calling upon 
God, he received strength, and he commanded saying, depart from me, Satan, 
for this one God only will I worship, which is the God of glory. And now 
Satan began to tremble, and the earth shook ; and Moses received strength 
and called upon God, saying, in the name of Jesus Christ, depart hence, Satan. 
And it came to pass that Satan cried with a loud voice, with weeping and 
gnashing of teeth, and departed hence, even from the presence of Moses, 
that he beheld him not. 

And now of this thing Moses bore record, but because of wickedness it is 
not had among the children of men. And it came to pass that when Satan 
had departed from the presence of Moses, he lifted up his eyes unto heaven, 
being filled with the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of the Father and the 
Son ; and calling on the name of God, he ^eheld his glory again, for it was 
upon him, and he heard a voice, saying, blessed art thou, Moses, for I, the 
Almighty, have chosen thee, and thou shalt be made stronger than many 
waters ; for they shall obey thy command as if thou wert God ; and lo, I am 
with thee, even unto the end of thy days ; for thou shalt deliver my people 
from bondage, even Israel my chosen. 

And it came to pass, as Moses' voice was still speaking, he cast his eyes, 
and beheld the earth, yea, even all the face of it, there was not a particle of 
it which he did not behold, descrying it by the spirit of God, And he be- 
held also the inhabitants thereof, and there was not a soul which he beheld 
not, and he discerned them by the spirit of God ; and their numbers were 
great, even numberless as the sand upon the sea shore. And he beheld many 
lands ; and each land was called earth, and there were inhabitants on the 
face thereof. 

And it came to pass that Moses called upon God, saying, tell me, I pray 
thee, why these things are so, and by what thou madest them ? And behold, 
the glory of God was upon Moses, so that Moses stood in the presence of 
God, and he talked with Moses face to face ; and the Lord God said unto 
Moses, for mine own purpose have I made these things. Here is wisdom, 
and it remaineth in me. And by the word of my power have I created them, 



10 



which is mine Only Begotten Son, who is full of grace and t^ ^ 
worlds without number have I created ; and I also created *» fa M 
Twn purpose ; and by the Son I created them winch us mm Only Begottem 
ITd tnefirst man of all men have I called Adam, which is many. But only 
1 account of this earth, and the .inhabitants thereof, g>ve I unto you lor 
Shold, there are many worlds which have passed away by the word* of _my 
power And there are many which now stand, and innumerable are they 
L> man, but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I 

know them. . . . b mferciful 

And it came to pass, that Moses spate unto me .uoru, ^ g, 

nuto thy servant, O God, and toll me concerning ^^jf^f^ 
ants thereof, and also the heavens, and then thy servant will be content And 
the Lord God spake unto Moses, saying, the heavens, they are many, and they 
cannot be numbered unto man, but they are numbered unto me, fa they are 
S and as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof, even so shall 
another come ; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words 

behold this is my work to my glory, to the immortality and eternal Me of 
J And now, Mo'es, my son, I will speak unto thee concern ing £. .earth 
upon which Aon stendest; and thou shall write these things 
ieak and in a day when the children of men shall esteem my words as nought 
InSkTmany of them from the book which thou shalt write, behold I wiU 
Sse up another like unto thee, and they shall be had again among the chil- 
dren of men ; among as many as shall believe those words were spoken unto 
Moses in the Mount, the name of which shall not be known among the chib 
drenofmen. And now they are spoken unto you. Amen. 



1 1 ' 

- And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Behold I 
reveal unto von concerning this Heaven, and this Earth; write the words 
which I speak. I am the Beginning and the End, the Almighty God ; by 
mine Only Begotten I created these things ; yea, in the beginning ^1 created 
the Heaven, and the Earth upon which tbou standest. And the Earth was 
without form, and void ; and I created darkness to come upon the face of 
the deep ; and m V Spirit moved upon the face of the waters ; for I am God. 
And I God, said; let there be light, and there was light ; and I, God, saw 
flight, and the light was good. And I, God, divided the light from the 
darkness : and I, God, called the light, Day ; and the darkness, I called Night ; 
and this I did by the word of my power, and it was done as I spake ; and 
the evening and the morning were the first Day. 
And again, I, God, said, let there be a firmament in the midst of the 



11 




waters, and it was so, even as I spake ; and I said, let it divide the waters 
from the waters, and it was done ; and I, God, made the firmament, and 
divided the waters, yea, the great waters under the firmament, from the 
waters which were above the firmament, and it was so even as I spake ; and 
I, God, called the firmament, Heaven ; and the evening and the morning were 
the second Day. 

And I, God, said, let the waters under heaven be gathered together into 
one place, and it was so ; and I, God, said, let there be dry land, and it was 
so ; and I, God, called the dry land, Earth ; and the gathering together of the 
waters, called I the Seas ; and I, God, saw that all tl 
were good. And I, God, said, let the 

ing seed, the fruit tree yielding fruit, after his kind, and the tree \ 
fruit, whose seed should be in itself upon the earth, and it was so even as I 
spake ; and the earth brought forth grass, every herb yielding seed after his 
kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed should be in itself, after his 
kind ; and I, God, saw that all things which I had made were good ; and the 
evening and the morning were the third Day* 

And I, God, said, let there be lights in the firmament of the Heaven to 
divide the Day from the Night, and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and 
for days, and for years ; and let them be for lights in the firmament of the 
Heaven to give light upon the Earth, and it was so. And I, God, made two 
great lights ; the greater light to rule the Day, and the lesser light to rule 
the Night, and the greater light was the Sun, and the lesser light was the 
Moon ; and the stars were made even according to my word. And I, God, 
set them in the firmament of heaven to give light upon the earth, and the Sun 
to rule over the Day, and the Moon to rule over the Night, and 
light from the darkness ; and I God, saw that all things which I 
were good ; and the evening and the morning were the fourth Day. 

And I, God, said, let the waters bring forth abundantly every moving 
creature that hath life, and fowl which may fly in the open firmament of 
heaven. And I, God, created great whales, and every living creature that 
moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and 
every winged fowl after his kind : and I, God, saw that all things which I 
had made were good. And I, God, blessed them, saying, be fruitful, and 
multiply, and fill the waters in the Seas ; and let fowl multiply in the earth ; 
and the evening and the morning were the fifth Day. 

And I, God, said, let the Earth bring forth the living creature after his 
kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kinds, and it 
was so : and I, God, made the beasts of the earth after their kind, and cattle 
after their kind, and every thing which creepeth upon the earth after his 
kind ; And I, God saw that all these things were good. And I, God, said 
unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning, let us 
make man in our own image, after our likeness ; and it was so. And I, 
God, said, let them have dominion over the fishes of the sea, and over the 




12 

fowls of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every 
creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. 

And I, God, created Man in mine own image, in the image of mine Only 
Begotten created I him ; male and female created I them. And I, God, 
blessed them, and I, God, said unto them, be fruitful, and multiply, and re- 
plenish the earth, and subdue it ; and have dominion over the fishes of the 
sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth up- 
on the earth. And I, God, said unto Man, behold, I have given you every 
herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in 
the which shall be the fruit of a tree yielding seed ; to you it shall be for 
meat ; and to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to 
every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein I grant life, there shall be 
given every clean herb for meat ; and it was so, even as I spake. And I, 
God, saw every thing that I had made, and, behold, all things which I had 
e were very good; and the evening and the morning were the sixth 
* - ' .\ 

Thus the Heaven and the Earth were finished, and all the host of them ; 
and on the seventh Day, I, God, ended my work, and all things which 1 
had made ; and I rested on the seventh Day from all my work, and all things 
which I had made were finished, and I, God, saw that they were good, and I, 
God, blessed the seventh Day, and sanctified it ; because I had rested from 
all my work which I, God, had created and made. 

And now, behold, I say unto you that these are the generations of the 
Heaven and of the Earth when they were created, in the day that I, the Lord 
God, made the heaven and the earth, and every plant of the field before it 
was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew. Fori, the 
Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually before they 
were naturally upon the face of the earth. And I, the Lord God, had created 
all the children of men ; and not yet a man to till the ground, for in heaven crea- 
ted I them ; and there was not yet flesh upon the earth ; neither in the water, 
neither in the air ; but I, the Lord God", spake, and there went up a mist 
from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. And I, the Lord 
God, formed Man from the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils 
the breath of life ; and Man became a living soul, the first flesh upon the 
earth, the first Man also : nevertheless, all things were before created ; but, 
spiritually, were they created and made according to my word. 

And I, the Lord God, planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there I put 
the Man whom I had formed. And out of the ground I, the Lord God, made 
to grow naturally, every tree that is pleasant to the sight of Man ; and Man 
could behold it. And they became also a living soul. It was spiritual in the 
day that I created it; for it remaineth in the sphere which I, God, created it 
in, yea, even all things which I prepared for the use of Man ; and Man saw 
that it was good for food. And I, the Lord God, placed the tree of life also in 
the midst of the garden, and also the tree of knowledge of good and evil. 




And a river went out of Eden to water the garden ; and from thence it was 
parted, and became into four heads. And I, the Lord God, called the name 
of the first Pison, and it compasseth the whole land of Havilab, where there 
was created much gold ; and the gold of that land was good, and there was 
Melium and the onyx stone. And the name of the second river was called 

the name of the third was Hiddekef; that was it that goeth toward^the^t 
of Assyria. And the fourth river was Euphrates. 

And I, the Lord God, took the Man, and put him into the Garden of Eden 
to dress it, and to keep it. And J, the Lord God, commanded the Man, 
saying, of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, but of the tree of 
knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it ; nevertheless thou mayest 
choose for thyself, for it is given unto thee j but, remember that I forbid, 
for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. And I, the 
Lord God, said unto mine Only Begotten, that it was not good that the Man 
should be alone ; wherefore, I will make a help meet for him. 

And out of the ground I, the Lord God, formed every beast of the field, 
and every fowl of the air ; and commanded that they should be brought unto 
Adam, to see what he would call them : and they were also living souls, and 
it was breathed into them, the breath of life : and whatsoever Adam called 
every living creature, that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to 
all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field ; but for 
Adam there was not found a help meet for him. And I, the Lord God, 
caused a deep sleep to come upon Adam, and he slept : and I took one of 
his ribs and closed up the flesh in the stead thereof; and the rib which I, 
the Lord God, had taken from Man, made I a Woman, and brought her unto 
the Man. And Adam said, this I know now is bone of my bones and flesh 
of my flesh ; she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man. 
Therefore shall a Man leave his father and mother, and cleave unto his 
Wife : and they twain shall be one flesh : and they were both naked, the 
Man and his Wife, and were not ashamed. 

And I, the Lord God, spake unto Moses, saying, that Satan, whom thou 
hast commanded in the name of mine Only Begotten, is the same which was 
from the beginning, and he came before me, saying, behold me ; send me, 
I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be 
lost, and surely I will do it : wherefore give me thine honour. But, behold, 
my Beloved Son, which was my Beloved and Chosen from the beginning, said 
unto me ; Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine for ever. Where- 
fore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency 
of man, which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I should give 
unto him mine own power, by the power of mine Only Begotten ; I caused 
that he should be cast down, and he became Satan, yea, even the Devil, the 
father of all lies, to deceive, and to blind men, and to lead them captive at 
his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice. And now the 



14j 



serpent was more.subtle than any beast of the field which I, the Lord God, 
had made. And Satan put it into the heart of the serpent, (for he had drawn 
away many after him,) and he sought also to beguile Eye, for ho knew not the 
mind of God : wherefore he sought to destroy the world, yea, and he said unto 
the Woman ; yea, hath God said ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden, 
(and he spake by the mouth of the serpent,) but of the fruit of the tree which 
thou beholdest in the midst of the garden, God hath said ye shall not eat of 
it, neither shall ye taste it, lest ye die. For God doth know that in the day 
ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, know- 
ing good and evil. And when the Woman saw that the tree was good for food, 
and that it became pleasant to the eye, and a tree to be desired to make her 
wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her hus- 
band with her, and he did eat. And the eyes of them both were opened, and 
they knew that they had been naked." 

j" And they heard the voice of the Lord God, as they were walking in the 
garden, in the cool of the day ; and Adam and his wife hid themselves from 
the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. And the Lord 
God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where are you going ? And 
he said, I heard your voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I beheld 
that I was naked, and I hid myself. 

And the Lord God said unto Adam, Who told you that you were naked ? 
Have you eaten of the tree whereof I told you that you should not eat ? If so 
you should surely die ! And the man said, The woman whom you gave me, 
and commanded that she should remain with me, gave me of the fruit of the 
tree, and I did eat. 

And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this which you have 
done ? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat. 

And again, the Lord said unto the woman, I will greatly multiply your sor- 
row, and your conception. In sorrow you shall bring forth children, and your 
desire shall be to your hubband, and he shall rule over you. 

And the Lord God said unto Adam, because you have hearkened unto the 
voice of your wife, and have eaten of the fruit of the tree of which I com- 
manded you, saying, you shall not eat of it ; cursed shall be the ground for 
your sake : in sorrow you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns also, 
and thistles shall it bring forth to you ; and you shall eat the herb of the field. 
By the sweat of your face shall you eat bread, until you shall return unto the 
ground— for you shall surely die — for out of it you were taken : for dust you 
were, and unto dust you shall return," 

" [After Adam had been driven out of the garden, he began to till the earth, 
and to have dominion over all the beasts of the field, and to eat his bread by the 
sweat of the brow as the Lord had commanded him. And Eve also, his wife, did 
labor with him, and he knew her, and she bare unto him sons and daughters, 
and they began to multiply and to replenish the earth. And from that time 
forth, the sons and daughters of Adam began to divide two and two in the 



land, and to till the land, and to tend flocks ; and they also begat sons and 
daughters. 

And Adam called upon the name of the Lord, and Eve also, his wife, and 
they heard the voice of the Lord from the way towards the garden of Eden, 
speaking unto them, and they saw Him not, for they were shut out from his 
presence. And he gave unto them commandment, that they should worship 
the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks, for an offer- 
ing unto the Lord, And Adam was obedient unto the commandments of the 
Lord, 

And after many days an angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying, 
why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord ? And Adam said unto him, I 
know not, save the Lord commanded me. And then the angel spake, saying, 
this thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, 
which is full of grace and truth. Wherefore, thou shalt do all that thou doest 
in the name of the Son, and thou shalt repent and call upon God in the name 
of the Son for evermore. 

And in that day die Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which bore record of the 
Father, and the Son, saying, I am Jesus Christ from the beginning, hence- 
forth and for ever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed ; and all 
mankind, even as many as will. 

And in that day Adam blessed God and was filled, and began to prophesy 
concerning all the families of the earth : blessed be the name of God for my 
transgression, for in this life I shall have joy, and again in my flesh I shall 
see God. 

And Eve, his wife, heard all these things and was glad, saying, were it not 
for our transgression we should never have had seed, and should never have 
known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which 
God giveth unto all the obedient. 

And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God ; and they made all things 
known unto their sons and their daughters. And Satan came also among 
them, saying, I am also a son of God ; and he commanded them, saying, be- 
lieve it not, and they believed it not, and loved Satan more than God. And 
men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish. 

And the Lord God called upon men by the Holy Ghost every where, and 
commanded them that they should repent ; and as many as believed in the 
Son, and repented of their sins, should be saved ; and as many as believed 
not and repented not, should be damned : and the words went forth out of 
the mouth of God in a firm decree ; wherefore they must be fulfilled. 

And Adam ceased not to call upon God ; and Eve also, his wife. And 
Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain, and said, I have 
gotten a man from the Lord ; wherefore he may not reject His words.'* 
* * * * * * * 

' i In process of time, Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering 
unto the Lord. And Abel also brought of the firstlings of liis flock, 



16 

and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel, and to his 
offering ; but unto Cain, and his offering, he had not respect. Now Satan 
knew this, and it pleased him. And Cain was very angry, and his countenance 
fell And the Lord said unto Cain, Why are you angry? Why is your 
countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you 
do not well, sin lies at the door, and Satan desires to have you ; and except 
you shall hearken unto my commandments, I will deliver you up, and it shall 
be unto you according to his desire. 

And Cain went into the field and talked with his brother Abel. And 
while they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and slew 
him. And Cain gloried in what he had done, saying, I am free ; surely the 
flocks of my brother will now fall into my hands. 

But the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel, your brother ? And he said, 
I know not. Am I my brother's keeper ? And the Lord said, What have 
you done ? the voice of your brother's blood cries unto me from the ground. 
And now you shall be cursed from the earth which has opened her mouth to 
receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you till the ground she 
shall not henceforth yield unto you her strength, A fugitive, and a vagabond 
also, you shall be in the earth. 

And Cain said unto the Lord, Satan tempted me because of my brother's 
flocks, And I was also angry ; for his offering was accepted, and mine was 
not ; my punishment is greater than I can bear. Behold, you have driven me 
out this day from the face of men, and from your face shall I be hid also ; and 
I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth ; And it shall come to pass, 
every one that finds me will slay me because of my oath, for these things are 
not hid from the Lord. And the Lord said unto him, Therefore, whoever 
slays Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the Lord set a 
mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him." 

* * * * * * * 

" And it came to pass, that Noah and his sons j hearkened unto the Lord, and 
gave heed, and they were called the sons of God. And when these men be- 
gan to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, 
that the sons of men saw that their daughters were fair, they took them wives 
even as they chose. And the Lord said unto Noah, the daughters of thy 
sons have sold themselves ; for behold mine anger is kindled against the sons 
of men, for they will not hearken to my voice. And it came to pass, that 
Noah prophesied, and taught the things of God, even as it was in the begin- 
ning. And the Lord said unto Noah, my Spirit shall not always strive with 
man,, for he shall know that all flesh shall die ; yet his days shall be an hun- 
dred and twenty years ; and if men do not repent, I will send in my floods 
upon them. 

And in those days there were giants on the earth, and they sought Noah 
to take away his life ; but the Lord was with Noah, and the power of the 
Lord was upon him. 



And the Lord ordained Noah after His order, and commanded him 
lie should go forth and declare His gospel unto the children of men, even as 
it was given unto Enoch. 

And it came to pass that Noah called upon men that they should repent ■ 
but they hearkened not unto his words ; and also, after that they had heard 
him, they came up before him, saying, behold, we are the sons of God : have 
we not taken unto ourselves the daughters of men ? and are we not eating and 
drinking, and marrying and giving in marriage? Our wives bear unto us 
children, and the same are mighty men, which are like unto them of old, men 
of great renown. And they hearkened not to the words of Noah. 

And God saw that the wickedness of men had become great in the earth ; 
and every man was lifted up in the imagination of the thoughts of his heart 
being only evil continually. 

And it came to pass that Noah continued his preaching unto the people 
saying, hearken, and give heed unto my words, believe and repent of your* 
sins, and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ the Son of God, even as 
our fathers did, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, that ye may 
have all things made manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in 
upon you. Nevertheless they hearkened not, and it repented Noah and his 
heart was pained that the Lord had made man on the earth, and it grieved 
him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have 
created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping 
things, and the fowls of the air : for it repenteth Noah that I have created 
them, and that I have made them ; and he hath called upon me ; and they 
have sought his life. 

But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord ; and Noah was a just man, 
and perfect in his generations ; and Noah walked with God, and also his three 
sons, Shein, Ham, and Japheth. The earth was corrupt before God, and the 
earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, 
it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way upon the earth. And God 
said unto Noah, the end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled 
with violence through them, and behold I will destroy them from off the 
earth." 



No. 1. 




WWW 



^XXJT^TAT ^W ^ ///////7>//// ///// 



wwwwwwl 

////////////// [2 // A/ 
\\\\^\V\\NAV\\\VV\V " ^ 



W7?77jw////tf ////// if / / / / / uTT/n 




EXPLANATION OF THE ABOVE CUT, 

Fig. L The angel of the Lord. 2. Abraham fastened upon an attar. 3. The idola- 
trous priest of Elkenah attempting to offer up Abraham as a sacrifice, 4. The altar for 
sacrifice by the idolatrous priests, standing before the gods of Elkenah, Libnah, Mahmack- 
rah; Korash, and Pharaoh. 5. The idolatrous god of Elkenah, 6. The idolatrous god of 
Libnah. 7. The idolatrous god of Mahmackrah. 8. The idolatrous god of Korash. 
9. The idolatrous god of Pharaoh, 10. Abraham in Egypt. 11- Designed to represent 
the pillars of heaven, aa understood by the Egyptians. 12. Kaukeeyang, signifying, ex- 
panse, or the firmament over our heads; but in this ease, in relation to this subject, the 
Egyptians meant it to signify Shauroau, to be high, or the heavens, answering to the 
Hebrew word, Shaumahyeom. 



a jRK&ftnfle from ttie aSoofc £if Qbctimu 

No. 2. 




EXPLANATION OF THE ABOVE CUT. 



Fig, 1* Kolob, signifying the first creation, near- 
est to the celestial, or the residence of God, First 
in government, the last pertaining to the measure- 
ment of time. The measurement, according to 
celestial time; which, celestial time, signifies one 
da; to a cubit. One day, in Kolob, is equal to a 
thousand years, according to the measurement of 
this earth, which is called by the Egyptians Jah- 
oh-eh. 

Fig. 2. Stands next to Kolob, called bj the Egyp- 
tians Oliblish, which is the next grand governing 
creation, near to the celestial or the place where 
God resides ; holding the key of power alBO, per- 
taining to other planets ; as revealed from God to 
Abraham, as be offered sacrifice upon an altar, 
which he had built unto the Lord. 

Fig. 3. Ib made to represent God, sitting upon 
his throne, clothed with power and authority : with 
a crown of eternal light upon his head: representing, 

nlan- thm errand Rev-Worda at ttie Holv Priont- 



hood, as revealed to Adam in the Garden of Eden, 
as also to Seth, Noah, Meichisedeck, Abraham, and 
all to whom the Priesthood was revealed. 

Fig. 4, Answers to the Hebrew word raukeeyang, 
signifying expanse, or the firmament of the heavens ; 
also, a numerical figure, in Egyptian, signifying one 
thousand; answering to the measuring of the time 
of Oliblish, which is equal with Kolob in its revo- 
lution and in its measuring of time. 

Fig. 5. Ia called in Egyptian Entoh-go-on-dosh ; 
that is one of the governing planets also ; and ia 
said by the Egyptians to be the Sun, and to borrow 
its light from Kolob through the medium of Kae-e- 
vanrash, which ia the grand Key, or in other words, 
the governing power, which governs fifteen other 
fixed planets or stars, as alBO Floeese or the Moon, 
the Earth and the Sun in their annual revolutions. 
This planet receives its power throngh the medium 
of Kli-fl os-is-es, or Hah-ko-kau-beam, the stars re- 



presented by numbers 22, and 23, receiving light 
from the revolutions of Kolob. 

Fig. G. Represents this earth in its fouT quarters. 

Fig. 7* Represents God sitting upon his throne, 
revealing, through the heavens, the grand Key- 
Words of the Priesthood ; as, also, the sign of the 
Holy Ghost unto Abraham, in the form of a dove. 

Fig. 8. Contains writing that cannot be revealed 
unto the world ; but is to be had in the Holy Tem- 
ple of God. 

Fig. 9. Ought not to be revealed at £he present 
time. 

Fig. 10. Also. 

Fig. 11. Also If the world can find out these 

numbers, So let it be, Amen. 

Figures 12, 18, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20, 
will be given in the own due time of the Lord. 

The above translation is given as far as we have 
any right to give, at the present time. 



19 



THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM. 

" A TRANSLATION OP SOME ANCIENT RECORDS, THAT HAVE FALLEN INTO OUR 
HANDS FROM THE CATECOMBS OF EGYPT, PURPORTING TO BE THE WRITINGS 
OF ABRAHAM WHILE HE WAS IN EGYPT, GALLED THE BOOK OF ABRAHAM, 
WRITTEN BY HIS OWN HAND, UPON PAPYRUS. n — -TiftlCS & Seasons, Vol. III. p. 

704. 

(Translated from the Papyrus, by Joseph Smith.) 

" In the land of the Chaldeans, at the residence of my father, I, Abraham, 
saw that it was needful for me to obtain another place of residence, and find- 
ing there was greater happiness and peace and rest for me, I sought for the 
blessings of the fathers, and the right whereunto I should be ordained to ad- 
minister the same ; having been myself a follower of righteousness, desiring 
also to be one who possessed great knowledge, and to be a greater follower of 
righteousness, and to possess a greater knowledge, and to be a father of many 
nations, a prince of peace ; and desiring to receive instructions, and to keep 
the commandments of God, I became a rightful heir, a High Priest, holding 
the right belonging to the fathers ; it was conferred upon me from the fathers ; 
it came down from the fathers, from the beginning of time, yea, even from 
the beginning, or before the foundations of the earth to the present time, 
even the right of the first born, on the first man, who is Adam, or first father, 
through the fathers, unto me. 

I sought for mine appointment unto the Priesthood according to the ap- 
pointment of God unto the fathers concerning the seed. My fathers having 
turned from their righteousness, and from the holy commandments which 
the Lord their God had given unto them, unto the worshipping of the gods of 
the heathens, utterly refused to hearken to my voice ; for their hearts were 
set to do evil, and were wholly turned to the god of Elkenah, and the god of 
Libnah, and the god of Mahmackrah, and the god of Korash, and the god of 
Pharaoh, king of Egypt ; therefore they turned their hearts to the sacrifice of 
the heathen in offering up their children unto their dumb idols, and heark- 
ened not unto my voice, but endeavoured to take away my life by the hand 
of the priest of Elkenah. The priest of Elkenah was also the priest of 
Pharaoh. 

Now, at this time it was the custom of the priest of Pharaoh, the king 
of Egypt, to offer up upon the altar which was built in the land of Chal- 
dea, for the offering unto these strange gods ; men, women, and children. 
And it came to pass that the priest made an offering unto the god of Pha- 

C 3 



20 



»*, and also unto the god of Shagreel, even after the manner of the Egyp- 
ZnL Now the god of Shagreel was the Sun. Ev en *e ^ffenng of a 
ehild did the priest of Pharaoh offer upon the altar winch stood by the lull 
called Potipbi's Hill, at the head of the plain of Olishem. Now. tins pnest 
had offered upon this altar three virgins at one time, who were the daughter, 
of Onitah, one of the royal descent directly from the loins of Ham. The e 
virgins were offered up because of their virtue ; they would not bow down Jo 
worship gods of wood or of stone, therefore they were killed upon tins altar, 
and it was doue after the manner of the Egyptians. 

And it came to pass that the priests laid violence upon me that they 
might slay me also, as they did those virgins upon this altar; and that you 
may have a knowledge of this altar, I will refer you to the representatmn at 
^commencement of this record. It was made after the form of a bedstead, 
such as was had among the Chaldeans, and it stood before the gods of Elke- 
X Libnah, Mahmackrah, Korash, and also a god like unto that of Pharaoh 
kin« of Ecvpt. That you may have an understanding of these gods, 1 nave 
given you the fashion of them in the figures at the beginning, whicV manner 
of the figures is called by the Chaldean, Eahleenos, which signifies, Hierogly- 

Pl And as they lifted up then- hands upon me, timt they might offer me 
up and take away my life, behold, I lifted up my voice unto the Lord my God, 
and the Lord hearkened and heard, and he filled me with a vision of the Al- 
mighty, and the angel ,f his presence stood by me, and innnediately unloosed 
mybands, and his voice was unto me, Abraham ! Abraham ! behold, my name 
is Jehovah, and I have heard thee, and have come down to deliver ^ the e , and 
to take thee away from Ihy father's house, and from all thy kins-folk, into a 
strange laud which thou knowest not of, and this because they have turned 
then hearts away from me, to worship the god of Elkenah and *e god of 
Libnah, and the god of Mahmackmh and the god of Korash, and the god oi 
Pharaoh, king of Egypt; therefore I have come down to visit them, and to 
destroy him who hath lifted up his hand against thee, Abraham my son to 
• take away thy life. Behold, I will lead thee by my hand, and I will take 
thee to put upon thee my name, even the Priesthood of thy fartier, and my 
power shall be over thee. As it was with Noah so shall it be with thee, that 
Su-ough thy niinistry my name shall be known in the earth for ever, for I am 

% Behold, Potiphar's Hill was in the land of Ur, of Chaldea. And the Lord 
broke down the altar of Elkenah, and of the gods of the land, and utterly de- 
stroyed them, and smote the priest that he died ; and there was great mourn- 
ino in Chaldea, and also in the court of Pharaoh, which Pharaoh signifies ; king 
L T royal blood. Now this king of Egypt was a descendant from the loins of 
Ham and was a partaker of the blood of the Canaanites by birth. From this 
descent sprang all the Egyptians, and thus the blood of the Canaanites was 
preserved in the laud. 



21 



The land of Egypt being first discovered, by a woman, who was the 
daughter of Ham, and the daughter of Egyptus, which in the Chaldee signifies 
Egypt, which signifies ; that which is forbidden. When this woman discovered 
the land it was under water, who afterwards settled her sons in it ; and thus, 
from Ham, sprang that race which preserved the curse in the land. Now the 
first government of Egypt was established by Pharaoh, the eldest son of 
Egyptus, the daughter of Ham, and it was after the manner of the govern- 
ment of Ham, which was Patriarchal. Pharaoh being a righteous man, estab- 
lished his kingdom and judged his people wisely and justly all his days, seek- 
ing earnestly to imitate that order established by the fathers in the first gene- 
rations, in the days of the first Patriarchal reign, even in the reign of Adam, 
and also of Noah, his father, who blessed him with the blessings of the earth, 
and with the blessings of wisdom, but cursed him as pertaining to the Priest- 
hood. 

Now, Pharaoh being of that lineage by which he could not have the 
right of Priesthood, notwithstanding the Pharaohs would fain claim it from 
Noah, through Ham, therefore my father was led away by their idolatry ; but 
I shall endeavour, hereafter, to delineate the chronology, running back from 
myself to the beginning of the creation, for the records have come into 
my hands, which I hold unto this present time. 

Now, after the priest of Elkenah was smitten that he died, there came a 
fulfillment of those things which were said unto me concerning the land of 
Chaldea, that there should be a famine in the land- Accordingly a famine 
prevailed throughout all the land of Chaldea, and my father was sorely tor- 
mented because of the famine, and he repented of the evil which he had de- 
termined against me, to take away my life. But the records of the lathers, 
even the Patriarchs, concerning the right of Priesthood, the Lord my God 
preserved in mine own hands, therefore a knowledge of the beginning of the 
creation, and also of the Planets, and of the Stars, as they were made known 
unto the fathers, have I kept even unto this day, and I shall endeavour to 
write some of these things upon this record, for the benefit of my posterity 
that shall come after me. 

Now the Lord God caused the famine to wax sore in the land of Ur, 
insomuch that Haran, my brother, died, but Terah, my father, yet lived in 
the land of Ur, of the Chaldees. And it came to pass that I, Abraham, took 
Sarai to wife, and Nehor, my brother, took Milcah to wife, who were the 
daughters of Haran. Now the Lord had said unto me, Abraham, get thee 
out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy fathers house, unto 
a land that I will shew thee. Therefore I left the land of Ur, of the Chal- 
dees, to go into the land of Canaan ; and I took Lot, my brother's son and 
his wife, and Sarai my wife, and also my father followed after me, unto the 
land which we denominated Haran, And the famine abated ; and my father 
taiiied in Haran and dwelt there, as there were many flocks in Haran; .and 
my father turned again unto his idolatry, therefore he continued in Haran. 



22 

But I, Abraham, and Lot, my brother's son, prayed unto the Lord, 
and the Lord appeared unto me, and said unto me, arise, and take Lot with 
thee, for I have purposed to take thee away out of Haran, and to make of 
thee a minister to bear my name in a strange land which I will give unto thy 
seed after thee for an everlasting possession, when they hearken to my voice. 
For I am the Lord thy God ; I dwell in heaven, the earth is my footstool ; I 
stretch my hand over the sea, and it obeys my voice ; I cause the wind and the 
fire to be my chariot ; I say to the mountains depart hence, and behold they 
are taken away by a whirlwind, in an instant, suddenly. My name is Jeho- 
vah, and I know the end from the beginning, therefore my hand shall be over 
thee, and I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above mea- 
sure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a bless- 
ing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry 
and priesthood unto all nations, and I will bless them through thy name ; for 
as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be ac- 
counted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father; and 
I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee ; and in 
thee (that is, in thy priesthood) and in thy seed (that is, thy priesthood), for 
I give unto thee a promise that this right shall continue in thee, and in 
thy seed after thee (that is to say, the literal seed, or the seed of the body), 
shall all the families of the earth be blessed, even with the blessings of the 
Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal. 

Now, after the Lord had withdrawn from speaking to me, and with- 
drawn his face from me, I said in mine heart, thy servant has sought thee 
earnestly, now I have found thee. Thou didst send thine angel to deliver 
me from the gods of Elkenah, and I will do well to hearken unto thy voice, 
therefore let thy servant rise up and depart in peace. So I, Abraham, de- 
parted as the Lord had said unto me, and Lot with me ; and I, Abraham, 
was sixty and two years old when I departed out of Haran. And I took 
Sand, whom I took to wife when I was in XJr, in Chaldea, and Lot my bro- 
ther's son, and all our substance that we had gathered, and the souls that we 
had won in Haran, and came forth in the way to the land of Canaan, and 
dwelt in tents as we came on our way ; therefore, eternity was our covering, 
and our rock, and our salvation, as we journeyed from Haran by the way of 
Jerehon, to come to the land of Canaan* 

Now I, Abraham built an altar in the land of Jershon, and made an 
offering unto the Lord, and prayed that the famine might be turned away 
from my father's house, that they might not perish ; and then we passed from 
Jershon through the land, unto the place of Sechem. It was situated in the 
plains of Moreh, and we had already come into the borders of the land of the 
Canaanites, and I offered sacrifice there in the plains of Moreh, and called on 
the Lord devoutly, because we had already come into the land of this idola- 
trous nation. 

And the Lord appeared unto me in answer to my prayers, and said 



23 



unto me, unto thy seed will I give this land. And I, Abraham, arose from 
the place of the altar which I had built unto the Lord, and removed from 
thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched my tent there, 
Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east ; and there I built another altar unto 
the Lord, and called again upon the name of the Lord. 

And I, Abraham, journeyed, going on still towards the south ; and 
there was a continuation of a famine in the land, and I, Abraham, concluded 
to go down into Egypt, to sojourn there, for the famine became very grievous. 
And it came to pass when I was come near to enter into Egypt, the Lord said 
unto me, behold, Sarai, thy wife, is a very fair woman to look upon ; therefore 
it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see her, they will say, she is 
his wife, and they will kill you, but they will save her alive ; therefore see that 
ye do on this wise : let her say unto the Egyptians, she is thy sister, and thy 
soul shall live. And it came to pass that I, Abraham, told Sarai, my wife, all 
that the Lord had said unto me — therefore say unto them, I pray thee, thou 
art my sister, that it may be well with me for thy sake, and my soul shall live 
because of thee. 

And I, Abraham, had the Urim and Thummim, which the Lord my 
God bad given unto me, in Ur of the Chaldees ; and I saw the Stars that 
they were very great, and that one of them was nearest unto the throne of 
God ; and there were many great ones which were near unto it ; and the Lord 
said unto me, these are the governing ones ; and the name of the great one is 
Kolob, because it is near unto me, for I am the Lord thy God ; I have set 
tins one to govern all those which belong to the same order of that upon 
which thou standest. And the Lord said unto me, by the Urim and Thum- 
mim, that Kolob was after the manner of the Lord, according to its times and 
seasons in the revolutions thereof, that one revolution was a day unto the 
Lord, after his manner of reckoning, it being one thousand years according to 
the time appointed unto that whereon thou standest. This is the reckoning 
of the Lord's time, according to the reckoning of Kolob. 

And the Lord said unto me, the planet which is the lesser light, lesser 
than that which is to rule the day, even the night, is above or greater than 
that upon which thou standest in point of reckoning, for it inoveth in order 
more slow : this is in order, because it standeth above the earth upon which 
thou standest ; therefore the reckoning of its time is not so many as to its 
number of days, and of months, and of years. And the Lord said unto me, 
now, Abraham, these two facts exist j behold, thine eyes see it : it is given 
unto thee to know the times of reckoning, and the set times, yea the set time 
of the earth upon which thou standest, and the set time of the greater light, 
which is set to rule the day, and the set time of the lesser light, which is set 
to rule the night. 

Now the set^time of the lesser light, is a longer time as to its reckon- 
ing than the reckoning of the time of the earth upon which thou standest* 
And where those two facts exist, there shall be another fact above them, that 



24 

is, there shall be another planet whose reckoning of time shall be longer still ; 
and thus there shall be the reckoning of the time of one planet above another, 
until thou come nigh unto Kolob, which Kolob is after the reckoning of the 
Lord's time ; which Kolob is set nigh unto the throne of God, to govern all 
those planets which belong to the same order of that upon which thou standest. 
And it is given unto thee to know the set time of all the stars that are set to 
give light, until thou come near unto the throne of God. 

Thus I, Abraham, talked with the Lord, face to face, as one man 
talketh with another ; and he told me of the works which his hands had made ; 
and he said unto me, my son, my son, (and his hand was stretched out,) be- 
hold, I wiE shew you all these. And he put his hand upon mine eyes, and I 
saw those things which his hands had made, which were many; and they 
multiplied before mine eyes, and I could not see the end thereof: and be said 
unto me, this is Shinehah, which is the Sun. And he said unto me, Kokoh, 
which is Star, And he said unto me, Olea, which is the Moon. And he said 
unto me, Kokaubeam, which signifies Stars, or all the great lights, which were 
in the firmament of heaven. And it was in the night time when the Lord 
spake these words unto me, I will multiply thee, and thy seed after thee, like 
unto these ; and if thou canst count the number of sands, so shall be the num- 
ber of thy seeds, 

And the Lord said unto me, Abraham, I shew these things unto thee 
before ye go into Egypt, that ye may declare all these words. If two tilings 
exist, and there be one above the other, there shall be greater things above 
them; therefore Kolob is the greatest of all the Kokaubeam that thou hast 
seen, because it is nearest unto me. Now, if there be two things, one above 
the other, and the moon be above the earth, then it may be that a planet or a 
star may exist above it ; and there is nothing that the Lord thy God shall 
take in his heart to do but what he will do it. Howbeit that he made the 
greater star, as, also, if there be two spirits, and one shall be more intelligent 
than the other, yet these two spirits, notwithstanding one is more intelligent 
than the other, have no beginning ; they existed before, they shall have no 
end, they shall exist after, for they are gnolaum, or eternal. 

And the Lord said unto me, these two facts do exist, that there are 
two spirits one being more intelligent than the other ; there shall be another 
more intelHgent than they : I am the Lord thy God, I am more intelligent 
than they all. The Lord thy God sent his angel to deliver thee from the 
hands of the priest of Elkenah. I dwell in the midst of them all ; I now, 
therefore, have come down unto thee, to deliver unto thee the works which 
my hands have made, wherein my wisdom excelleth them all, for I rule in the 
heavens above, and in the earth beneath, in all wisdom and prudence, over all 
the intelligences tliine eyes have seen from the beginning ; I came down in 
the beginning in the midst of all the intelligences thou hast seen. 

Now the Lord had shewn unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that 
were organized before the world was ; and among all these there were many 



25 



of the noble and great ones ; and God saw these souls that they were good, 
and he stood in the midst of them, and he said, these I will make my rulers ; 
for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good ; 
and he said unto me, Abraham, thou art one of them, thou wast chosen before 
thou wast born. And there stood one among them that was like unto God, 
and he said unto those who were with him, we will go down, for there is space 
there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth wheTeon 
these may dwell ; and we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all 
things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them ; and they who 
keep their first estate, shall be added upon ; and they who keep not their first 
estate, shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their 
first estate ; and they who keep their second estate, shall have glory added 
upon their heads for ever and ever. 

And the Lord said, who shall I send? And one answered like unto 
the Son of Man, here am I, send me. And another answered and said, here 
am I, send me. And the Lord said, I will send the first. And the second 
was angry, and kept not his first estate, and, at that day, many followed after 
him. And then the Lord said, let us go down ; and they went down at the 
beginning, and they organized and formed (that is, the Gods) the heavens and 
the earth. And the earth, after it was formed, was empty and desolate, be- 
cause they had not formed anything but the earth ; and darkness reigned up- 
on the face of the deep, and the spirit of the Gods was brooding upon the 
faces of the water. 

And they (the Gods,) said, let there be light, and there was light. 
And they (the Gods) comprehended the light, for it was bright; and they di- 
vided the light, or caused it to be divided, from the darkness ; and the Gods 
called the light day, and the darkness they called night. And it came to pass 
that from the evening until morning they called night ; and from the morning 
until the evening they called day ; and this was the first or the beginning of 
that which they called Day and Night. 

And the Gods also said, let there be an expanse in the midst of the 
waters, and it shall divide the waters from the waters. And the Gods ordered 
the expanse, so that it divided the waters which were under the expanse from 
the waters which were above the expanse ; and it was so, even as they ordered. 
And the Gods called the expanse Heaven. And it came to pass that it was - 
from evening until morning that they called Night ; and it came to pass that 
it was from morning until evening that they called Day ; and this was the 
second time that they called Night and Day. 

And the Gods ordered, saying, let the waters under the heaven be 
gathered together unto one place, and let the earth come up dry ; and it was 
so, as they ordered ; and the Gods pronounced the earth dry, and the gather- 
ing together of the waters, pronounced they, great waters : and the Gods saw 
that they were obeyed. And the Gods said, let us prepare the earth to bring 
forth grass ; the herb yielding seed ; the fruit tree yielding fruit, after his 



26 

- 

kind, whose seed in itself yieldeth its own likeness upon the earth ; and it 
was 80, even as they ordered. And the Gods organized the earth to bring 
forth grass from its own seed, and the herb to bring forth herb from its own 
seed, yielding seed after his kind ; and the earth to bring forth the tree from 
its own seed, yielding fruit, whose seed could only bring forth the same in 
itself, after his kind ; and the Gods saw that they were obeyed. And it came 
to pass that they numbered the days ; from the evening until the morning 
they called night ; and H came to pass, from the morning until the evening 
they called day ; and it was the third time. 

And the Gods organized the lights in the expanse of the heaven, and 
caused them to divide the day from the night ; and organized them to be for 
signs and for seasons, and for days and for years ; and organized them to be 
for lights hi the expanse of the heaven, to give light upon the earth ; and it 
was so. And the Gods organized the two great lights, the greater light to 
rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night ; with the lesser light they 
set the stars also ; and the Gods set them in the expanse of the heavens, to 
give light upon the earth, and to rule over the day and over the night, and to 
cause to divide the light from the darkness. And the Gods watched those 
things which they had ordered until they obeyed. And it came to pass that 
it was from evening until morning that it was night ; and it came to pass that 
it was from morning until evening that it was day, and it was the fourth time. 

And the Gods said, let us prepare the waters to bring forth abundantly 
the moving creatures that have life ; and the fowl, that they may fly above the 
earth in the open expanse of heaven. And the Gods prepared the waters that 
they might bring forth great whales, and every living creature that moveth, 
which the waters were to bring forth abundantly after their kind ; and every 
winged fowl after their kind. And the Gods saw that they would be obeyed, 
and that their plan was good. And the Gods said, we will bless them, and 
cause them to be fruitful and multiply, and nil the waters in the seas or great 
waters ; and cause the fowl to multiply in the earth. And it came to pass 
that it was from evening until morning that they called night ; and it came to 
pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day ; and it was 
the fifth time. 

And the Gods prepared the earth to bring forth the living creature 
■ after his kind, cattle and creeping tilings, and beasts of the earth after their 
kind ; and it was so, as they had said. And the Gods organized the earth to 
bring forth the beasts after their kind, and cattle after their kind, and every 
thing that creepeth upon the earth after their kind ; and the Gods saw they 
would obey. And the Gods took counsel among themselves and said, let us 
go down and form man in our image, after our likeness ; and we will give 
them dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over 
the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth 
upon the earth. So the Gods went down to organize man in their own image, 
in the image of the Gods to form they him, male and female, to form they 



m — — 











them ; and the Gods said, we wUl bless them. And the Gods said, we will 
cause them to be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue 
it, and to have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, 
and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. And the Gods said, 
behold, we will give them every herb bearing seed that shall come upon the 
face of all the earth, and every tree which shall have fruit upon it, yea, the 
fruit of the tree yielding seed to them we will give it, it shall be for their 
meat ; and to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to 
every thing that creepeth upon the earth, behold, we will give them life, and 
also we will give to them every green herb for meat, and all these things shall 
be thus organized. And the' Gods said, we will do every thing that we have 
said, and organize them ; and behold, they shall be very obedient. And it 
came to pass that it was from evening until morning they called night ; aad it 
came to pass that it was from morning until evening that they called day ; and 
they numbered the sixth time. 

And thus we will finish the heavens and the earth, and all the hosts of 
them. And the Gods said anion" themselves, on the seventh time we will 
end our work which we have counselled ; and we will rest on the seventh time 
from all our work which we have counselled. And the Gods concluded upon 
the seventh time, because that on the seventh time they would rest from all 
their works which they (the Gods) counselled among themselves to form, and 
sanctified it. And thus were their decisions at the time that they counselled 
among themselves to form the heavens and the earth. And the Gods came 
down and formed these the generations of the heavens and of the earth, when 
they were formed in the day that the Gods formed the earth and the heavens, 
according to all that which they had said concerning every plant of the field 
before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew ; for the 
Gods had not caused it to rain upon the earth when they counselled to do 
them and had not formed a man to till the ground ; but there went up a mist 
from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. And the Gods 
formed man from the dust of the ground, and took his spirit, (that is, the 
man's spirit,) and put it into him, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of 
life, and man became a living soul. 

And the Gods planted a garden, eastward in Eden, and there they put 
the man, whose spirit they had put into the body which they had formed. 
And out of the ground made the Gods to grow every tree that is pleasant to 
the sight and good for food : the tree of life, also, in the midst of the garden, 
and the tree of knowledge, of good and evil. There was a river running out 
of Eden, to water the garden, and from thence it was parted and became into 
four heads And the Gods took the man and put him in the Garden of 
Eden to dress it and to keep it: and the Gods commanded the man, saying, 
of every tree yf the garden thou mayst freely eafr, but of the tree of knowledge 
of mod and evil, thou shalt not eat of it ; for in the time that thou eatest 
thereof, thou shalt surely die. Now I, Abraham, saw that it was aftor the 



28 



Lord's time, which was after the time of Kolob ; for as yet the Gods had not 
appointed unto Adam his reckoning. 

And the Gods said, let m make an help meet for the man, for it is not 
good that the man should be alone, therefore we will form an help meet for him. 
And the Gods caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam ; and he slept, and they 
took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in the stead thereof, and the rib 
which the Gods had taken from man formed they a woman, and brought her 
unto the man. And Adam said, this was bone of my bones, and flesh of my 
fell, now she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man ; 
therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto 
his wife, and they shall be one flesh. And they were both naked, the man 
and liiis wife, and were not ashamed. And out of the ground the Gods formed 
every heast of the held, and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam 
to see what he would call them ; and whatsoever Adam called every living crea- 
ture, that should be the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all cattle, 
to the fowl of the air, to every beast of the field : and for Adam there was 
found an help meet for him. 1 ' 



EXPLANATION OF THE CUT ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE. 

1. Abraham sitting upon Pharaoh's throne, by the politeness of the king, with a crown 
upon his head, representing the Priesthood, as emblematical of the grand Presidency in 
Heaven ; with the %eeptre of justice and judgment in his hand. 

2. King Pharaoh, whose name is given in the characters above his head, 

3. Signifies Abraham in Egypt ; referring to Abraham, as given in the ninth number of 
the M Times and Seasons." — Also as given in the first facsimile of this booh. 

4. Prince of Pharaoh, King of Egypt, as written above the hand. 

& Shnlenij one of the kjng*s principal waiters, as represented by the characters above 
his hand. 

6. Olimlah, a slave belonging to the prince. 

Abraham is reasoning upon the principles of astronomy, in the king's court. 



30 



AN EXTRACT FROM A TRANSLATION OF THE BIBLE — 1JEING THE TWENTY - 
FOURTH CHAPTER OF MATTHEW, COMMENCING WITH THE LAST VERSE OF 
THE TWENTY-THIRD CHAPTER, 

By the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, — Joseph Smith, 

" For I say unto you, ye shall not see me henceforth until ye shall say, bles- 
sed is he that eometh in the name of the Lord, in the clouds of heaven, with 
all his holy angels with him. Then understood his disciples that he should 
come again on the earth, after that he was glorified and crowned on the right 
hand of God. 

And Jesus went out, and departed from the Temple ; and his disciples 
came to him, for to hear Mm, saying, Master, shew us concerning the build- 
ings of the Temple, as thou hast said, they shall be thrown down, and left 
unto you desolate. And Jesus said unto them, see you not all these things, 
and do you not understand them ? Verily I say unto you, there shall not be 
left here, upon this Temple, one stone upon another that shall not be thrown 
down. 

And Jesus left them, and went upon the mount of Olives. And as he sat 
upon the mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, tell 
us when shall these things be which thou hast said concerning the destruction 
of the Temple, and the Jews ; and what is the sign of thy coming, and the 
end of the world ? (or the destruction of the wicked, which is the end of the 
world.) 

And Jesus answered, and said unto them, take heed that no man deceive 
you ; for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive 
many ; then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and 
you shall be hated of all nations, for my name's sake ; and then shall many be 
offended, and shall betray one another ; and many false prophets shall arise, 
and shall deceive many ; and because iniquity shall abound, the love of many 
shall wax cold ; but he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be sa- 
ved. 

When you, therefore, shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of 
by Daniel the prophet, concerning the destruction of Jerusalem, then you 
shall stand in the holy place ; whoso readeth let him understand. Then 
let them who be in Judea flee into the mountains ; let him who is on the 
house top flee, and not return to take, any tiling out of his house ; neither 
let him who is in the field return back to take his clothes ; ^ and w T oe unto 
them that are with child, and unto them that give suck in those clays ; there- 
fore, pray ye the Lord that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the 



31 



sabbath day ; for then, in those days, shall be great tribulation on the Jews, 
and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, such as was not before sent upon Is- 
rael or the world, since the beginning of their reign till this time ; no, nor 
ever shall be sent again upon Israel All these things are the beginning of 
sorrows ; and except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be 
saved ; but for the Elect's sake, according to the covenant, those days shall 
be shortened. 

Behold, these things I have spoken unto you concerning the Jews ; and 
then, immediately after the tribulation of those days which shall come upon 
Jerusalem, if any man shall say unto you, Lo ! here is Christ, or there, be- 
lieve him not ; for in those days there shall also arise false Christs, and false 
prophets, and shall shew great signs and wonders, insomuch that, if possible, 
they shall deceive the very Elect, who are the elect according to the cove- 
nant. Behold, I speak these things unto you for the Elect's sake ; and you 
also shall hear of wars, and rumours of wars ; see that ye he not troubled, for 
all 1 have told you must come to pass, but the end is not yet. 

Behold, I have told you before ; wherefore, if they shall say unto you, be- 
hold, he is in the desert, go not forth ; behold, he is in the secret chambers, 
believe it not ; for as the light of the morning cometh out of the east, and 
shineth even unto the west, and covereth the whole earth, so shall also the 
coming of the Son of Man be : and now I shew unto you a parable. Behold, 
wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together ; so 
likewise shall mine Elect be gathered from the four quarters of the earth. 
And they shall hear of w T ars, and rumours of wars. Behold, I speak unto 
you for mine Elect's sake ; for nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom 
against kingdom ; there shall be famine, and pestilence, and earthquakes, in 
divers places ; and again, because iniquity shall abound, the love of many 
shall wax cold ; but he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be 
saved. 

And again, this Gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached in all the world, 
for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end come, or the destruc- 
tion of the wicked ; and again shall the abomination of desolation, spoken of 
by Daniel the prophet, be fulfilled. And immediately after the tribulations 
of those days, the Sun shall be darkened, and the Moon shall not give her 
light, and the Stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of heaven shall be 
shaken ; verily, I say unto you, this generation, in the which these things shall 
be shewn forth, shall not pass away till all I have told shall be fulfilled : — 
Although, the days will come, that heaven and earth shall pass away ; but 
my words shall not pass away, but all shall be fulfilled. 

And as I said before, after the tribulations of those days, and the powers 
of the heaven shall he shaken ; then, shall appear the sign of the Son of 
Man in heaven, and then, shall all the tribes of the earth mourn ; and they 
shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven, with power and 
great glory ; and whoso treasureth up my word, shall not be deceived, for the 



32 



Son of Man shall come, and he shall send his Angels before him with the 
great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together His Elect from 
the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other. 

Now learn a parable of the fig tree ; when his branch is yet tender, and 
putteth forth leaves, you know that summer is nigh at hand ; so likewise ♦ 
mine Elect, when they shall see all these things, they shall know that He is 
near, even at the doors ; but of the day, and hour, no one knoweth ; no, not 
the Angels of God in heaven, but my Father only. But as it was in the days 
of Noah, so shall it be also at the coming of the Son of Man ; for it shall be 
with them, as it was in the days before the flood ; until the day that Noah 
entered the ark ; they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in 
marriage, and knew not until the flood came, and took them all away ; so 
shall the coming of the Son of Man be. 

Then shall be fulfilled that which is written, that in the last days, two 
shall be in the field, the one shall be taken, and the other left ; and what I 
say unto one, I say unto all men, watch therefore, for ye know not at what 
hour your Lord doth come. But know this, that if the good man of the 
house had known in what hour the thief would come, he would have watched, 
and would not have suffered his house to have been broken up, but would 
have been ready. Therefore be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye 
think not, the Son of Man cometh. 

Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his Lord hath made ruler 
over his household, to give them meat in due season ? Blessed is that ser- 
vant, whom his Lord when he cometh, shall find so doing ; and verily I say 
unto you, he shall make Mm ruler over all his goods. But if that evil ser- 
vant shall say in his heart, my Lord delay eth his coming, and shall begin to 
smite his fellow servants, and to eat and drink with the drunken, the Lord of 
that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour 
that he is not aware of, and shall cut him asunder, and shall appoint him his 
portion with the hypocrites, and there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, 
and then cometh the end of the wicked according to the prophecy of Moses, 
saying, they shall be cut off from among the people ; but the end of the earth 
is not yet, but by and by." 



33 



A KEY TO THE REVELATIONS OF ST. JOHN. 

By Joseph Smith. 

Q. — What is the sea of glass spoken of by John, 4th chapter, and 6th 
verse of the Revelations? 

A. — It is the Earth, in its sanctified, immortal, and eternal state. 

Q. — What are we to understand by the four Beasts, spoken of in the same 
verse ? 

A, — They are figurative expressions, used by the Revelator John, in 
describing heaven, the Paradise of God, the happiness of man, and of beasts, 
and of creeping things, and of the fowls of the air ; that, which is spiritual, 
being in the likeness of that which is temporal ; and that which is temporal, is 
in the likeness of that which is spiritual ; the Spirit of Man in the likeness of 
his person, as also the spirit of the beast, and every other creature which 
God has created. 

Q.— Are the four beasts limited to individual beasts, or do they represent 
classes or orders ? 

A. — They are limited to four individual beasts, which were shown to John, 
to represent the glory of the classes of beings, in their destined order or sphere 
of creation, in the enjoyment of their eternal felicity, 

Q. — What are we to understand by the eyes, and wings, which the beasts 
had? 

A. — Their eyes are a representation of light, and knowledge ; that is, they 
are full of knowledge ; and their wings are a representation of power, to move, 
to act, &c. 

Q. — What are we to understand by the four and twenty Eiders, spoken of 
by John ? 

A. — We are to understand that these Elders whom John saw, were Elders 
who had been faithful in the work of the ministry and were dead ; who be- 
longed to the seven churches, — and were then in the Paradise of God. 

Q. — What are we to understand by the book which John saw, which was 
sealed on the back with seven seals ? 

A. — We are to understand that it contains the revealed will, mysteries, and 
works of God ; the hidden things of His economy concerning this earth dur- 
ing the seven thousand years of its continuance, or its temporal existence, 

Q. — What are we to understand by the seven seals with which it was 
sealed ? 

A. — We are to understand that the first seal contains the things of the first 
thousand years, and the second also of the second thousand years, and so on 
until the seventh. 

n 



34 



Q,_What are we to understand by the four Angels, spoken of in the 
7th chap, and 1st verse of Revelations? 

A.— We are to understand that they are four Angels sent forth from God, 
to whom is given power over the four parts of the earth, to save life and to 
destroy ; these are they who have the everlasting Gospel to commit to every 
Nation, Kindred, Tongue, and People ; having power to shut up the Heavens, 
to seal up unto life, or to cast down to the regions of darkness. 

Q._ What are we to understand by the Angel ascending from the East, 
Revlations 7th chapter and and verse ? 

A.— We are to understand that the Angel ascending from the East, is he to 
whom is given the seal of the Living God, over the twelve tribes of Israel ; 
wherefore he crieth unto the four Angels having the Everlasting Gospel, say- 
ing, hurt not the Earth, neither the Sea, nor the Trees, till we have sealed 
the servant* of our God in their foreheads ; and if you will receive it, this is 
Elms which was to come to gather together the tribes of Israel and restore all 
things, 

q —What time are the things spoken of in this chapter to be accomplished? 
A.— They are to be accomplished in the sixth thousand year, or the opening 
of the sixth seal. 

what are we to understand by sealing the one hundred and forty- 
four thousand, out of all the tribes of Israel ; twelve thousand out of every 
tribe ? 

A. We are to understand that those who are sealed are High Priests, or- 
dained unto the Holy Order of God, to administer the Everlasting Gospel; for 
they are they who are ordained out of every Nation, Kindred, Tongue, and 
People, by the Angels to whom is given power over the Nations of the earth, 
to bring as many as will come, to the Church of the First Bora. 

Q.— What are we to understand by the sounding of the Trumpets, men- 
tioned in the 8th chapter of Revelations f 

A. We are to understand that as God made the world in six days, and on 

the seventh day he finished his work, and sanctified it, and also formed man 
out of the dust of the earth ; even so, in the beginning of the seventh thousand 
years will the Lord God sanctify the earth, and complete the salvation of man, 
and judge all things, and shall redeem all things, except that which he hath 
not put into his power, when he shall have sealed all things, unto the end of 
all things ; and the sounding of the trumpets of the seven Angels, are the 
preparing, and finishing of his work, in the beginning of the seventh thou- 
sand years ; — the preparing of the way before the time of his coming. 

q. When are the things to be accomplished, which are written in the 9th 

chapter of Revelations? 

A. — They are to be accomplished after the opening of the seventh seal, be- 
fore the coming of Christ. 

Q. What are we to understand by the little book which was eaten by John, 

as mentioned in the U»th chapter of Revelations? 



35 



A. — We are to understand that it was a mission, and an ordinance, for him 
to gather the tribes of Israel ; behold, this is Elias ; who, as it is written, must 
come and restore all things. 

Q,— What is to be understood by the two witnesses, in the eleventh chap- 
ter of Revelations ? 

A. — They are two Prophets that are to he raised up to the Jewish Nation 
in the last days, at the time of the restoration, and to prophesy to the Jews, 
after they are gathered, and build the city of Jerusalem, in the land of their 
fathers. 



A REVELATION AND PROPHECY BY THE PROPHET, SEER, AND REVELATOR, 

JOSEPH SMITH. 

Given December 25tft, 18B2. 

11 Verily thus saith the Lord, concerning the wars that will shortly come to 
pass, beginning at the rebellion of South Carolina, which will eventually ter- 
minate in the death and misery of many souls. The days will come that war 
will be poured out upon all nations, beginning at that place ; for behold, the 
Southern States shall be divided against the Northern States, and the South- 
cm Suites will call on other nations, even the nation of Great Britain, as it is 
called, and they shall also call upon other nations, in order to defend them- 
selves against other nations ; and thus war shall be poured out upon all na- 
tions. And it shall come to pass, after many days, slaves shall rise up against 
their Masters, who shall bo marshalled and disciplined for war : And it shall 
come to pass also, that the remnants who are left of the land will marshall 
themselves, and shall become exceeding angry, and shall vex the Gentiles 
with a sore vexation ; and thus, with the sword, and by bloodshed, the inha- 
bitants of the earth shall mourn ; and with famine, and plague, and earth- 
quakes, and the thunder of Heaven, and the fierce and vivid lightning also, 
shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath, and indignation 
and chastening hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed, 
hath made a full end of all nations ; that the cry of the Saints, and of the 
blood of the Saints, shall cease to come up into the ears of the Lord of Sab- 
baoth, from the earth, to be avenged of their enemies. Wherefore, stand ye 
in holy places, and be not moved, until the day of the Lord come ; for behold 
it cometh quickly, saith the Lord, Amen." 

d 2 



36 



EXTRACTS FROM THE HISTORY OF JOSEPH SMITH, 
Containing an account of the fibst visions and revelations which he 

RECEIVED, ALSO OF HIS DISCOVERING AND OBTAINING THE PLATES OF GOLD 

WHICH CONTAIN THE RECORD OF MORMON ITS TRANSLATION HIS BAPTISM, 

AND ORDINATION BY THE ANGEL— ITEMS OF DOCTRINE FROM THE REVELA- 
TIONS AND COMMANDMENTS TO THE CHURCH. — -Twi€S d SeaSOHS, Vol. ul p. 

726, &a 

" Owing to the many reports which have been put in circulation by evil 
designing persons in relation to the rise and progress of the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints, all of which have been designed by the authors 
thereof to militate against its character as a Church, and its progress in the 
world, I have been induced to write this history, so as to disabnse the public 
mind, and put all inquirers after truth in possession of the facts as they 
have transpired in relation both to myself and the Church, so far as I have 
such facts in possession, 

In this history I will present the various events in relation to this 
Church, in truth and righteousness, as they have transpired, or as they at 
present exist, being now the eighth year since the organization of the said 
Church* 

I was born in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and five, 
on the twenty-third day of December, in the town of Sharon, Windsor county, 
state of Vermont. My father, Joseph Smith, senior, left the state of Ver- 
mont, and moved to Palmyra, Ontario (now Wayne) county, in the state of 
New York, when I was in my tenth year. In about four years after my 
father's arrival at Palmyra, he moved with his family into Manchester, in the 
same county of Ontario, His family consisted of eleven souls, namely: 
my father Joseph Smith, my mother Lucy Smith (whose name previous to 
her marriage was Mack, daughter of Solomon Mack), my brothers Alvin, (who 
is now dead), Hyrum, myself, Samuel Harrison, William, Don Carlos, and 
my sisters Sophronia, Catherine, and Lucy. 

Some time in the second year after our removal to Manchester, there was 
in the place where we lived an unusual excitement on the subject of religion. 
It commenced with the Methodists, but soon became general among all the 
sects in that region of country, indeed the whole district of country seemed 
affected by it, and great multitudes united themselves to the different religious 
parties, which created no small stir and division amongst the people, some 



37 



crying, 1 lo here/ and some, ' lo there ; ' some were contending for the Me- 
thodist faith, some for the Presbyterian, and some for the Baptists'. For 
notwithstanding the great love winch the converts for these different faiths 
expressed at the time of their conversion, and the great zeal manifested by 
the respective clergy, who were active in getting up and promoting this ex- 
traordinary scene of religious feeling, in order to have every body converted, 
as they were pleased to call it, let them join what sect they pleased ; yet 
when the converts began to file off, some to one party, and some to another, 
it was seen that the seemingly good feelings of both the priests and the con- 
verts were more pretended than real, for a scene of great confusion and bad 
feeling ensued — -priest contending against priest, and convert against convert, 
so that all the good feelings one for another, if they ever had any, were en- 
tirely lost in a strife of words, and a contest about opinions. 

I was at this time in my fifteenth year. My father's family was proselyted 
to the Presbyterian faith, and four of them joined that church, namely, 
my mother Lucy, my brothers Hyrum, Samuel Harrison, and my sister 
Sophronia, 

During this time of great excitement, my mind was called up to serious 
reflection and great uneasiness ; but though my feelings were deep and often 
pungent, still 1 kept myself aloof from all those parties, though I attended 
their several meetings as often as occasion would permit ; but in process of 
time my mind became somewhat partial to the Methodist sect, and I felt 
some desire to he united with them, but so great was the confusion and strife 
among the different denominations, that it was impossible for a person, young 
as I was, and so unacquainted with men and things, to come to any certain 
conclusion who was right, and who was wrong. My mind at different times 
was greatly excited, the cry and tumult was so great and incessant. The 
Presbyterians were most decided against the Baptists and Methodists, and 
used all their powers of either reason or sophistry to prove their errors, or, at 
least, to make the people think they were in error. On the other hand the 
Baptists and Methodists, in their turn, were equally zealous to establish their 
own tenets, and disprove all others. 

In the midst of this war of words and tumult of opinions, I often said to 
myself, what is to be done ? Who of all these parties are right ? or, are 
they all wrong together ? If any one of them be right, which is it, and how 
shall I know it? 

While I was labouring under the extreme difficulties, caused by the con- 
tests of these parties of religionists, I was one day reading the Epistle of 
James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads, ' If any of you lack wisdom, 
let him ask of God, that giveth unto ail men liberally and upbraideth not, and 
it shall be given him/ Never did any passage of scripture come with more 
power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to 
enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again 
and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, 1 did ; for 



38 



how to act I did not know, and unless I could get more wisdom than I then had, 
would never know ; for the teachers of religion of the different sects under- 
stood the same passage so differently as to destroy all confidence in settling 
the question by an appeal to the Bible. At length I came to the conclusion 
that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as 
James directs, that is, ask of God. I at length came to the determination to 
• ask of God/ concluding that if he gave wisdom to them that lacked wis- 
dom, and would give liberally and not upbraid, I might venture. So, in ac- 
cordance with this my determination to ask of God, I retired to the woods to 
make the attempt. It was on the morning of a beautiful clear day, early in 
the spring of eighteen hundred and twenty. It was the first time in my 
life that I had made such an attempt, for amidst all my anxieties I had never 
as yet made the attempt to pray vocally. 

After I had retired into the place where I had previously designed to go, 
having looked around me and finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began 
to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so, when 
immediately I was seized upon by some power which entirely overcome me, 
and had such astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I 
could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me 
for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction. But exerting all my 
powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which 
had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into 
despair and abandon myself to destruction, not to an imaginary nun, but to 
the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such a mar- 
vellous power as I had never before felt in any being. Just at this moment 
of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the bright- 
ness of the Sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. It no 
sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held 
me bound. When the light rested upon me, I saw two personages, whose 
brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One 
of them spake unto me, calling me by name, and said (pointing to the other) 
'This is my beloved Son, hear him,' 

My object in going to enquire of the Lord was to know which of all the 
sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner therefore did I 
get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the personages 
who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right (for at this 
time it had never entered into my heart that all were wrong), and which I 
should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were 
all wrong, and the personage who addressed me said ' that all their creeds 
were an abomination in his sight ; that those professors were all corrupt, they 
draw near to me with their hps, but their hearts are far from me ; they teach 
for doctrine the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they 
deny the power thereof/ 

He again forbade me to join with any of them ; and many other things did 



39 

he say unto me which I cannot write at this time. When I came to myself 
again, I found myself laying on my back, looking up into heaven. 

Some few days after I had this vision, I happened to he in company with 
one of the Methodist preachers, who was very active in the before-mentioned 
religious excitement, and conversing with him on the subject of religion, I 
took occasion to give him an account of the vision which I had had. I was 
greatly surprised at his behaviour, he treated my communication not only 
lightly, but with great contempt, saying it was all of the devil, that there were 
no such things as visions or revelations in these days ; that all such things 
had ceased with the apostles, and that there never would be any more of 
them. 

I soon found, however, that my telling the story had excited a great deal of 
prejudice against me among professors of religion, and was the cause of great 
persecution which continued to increase ; and though I was an obscure boy, 
only between fourteen and fifteen years of age, and my circumstances in life 
such as to make a boy of no consequence in the world, yet men of high 
standing would take notice sufficient to excite the public mind against me, 
and create a hot persecution, and this was common among all the sects, all 
united to persecute me. 

It has often caused me serious reflection, both then and since, how very 
strange it was that an obscure boy, of a little over fourteen years of age, and 
one, too, who was doomed to the necessity of obtaining a scanty maintenance 
by his daily labour, should be thought a character of sufficient importance to 
attract the attention of the great ones of the most popular sects of the day, so 
as to create in them a spirit of the hottest persecution and reviling. But 
strange or not, so it was, and was often cause of great sorrow to myself. 
However it was, nevertheless, a fact, that I had had a vision. I have thought 
since, that I felt much like Paul when he made his defence before king 
Agrippa, and related the account of the vision he had when he * saw a light 
and heard a voice,' but still there were but few who believed him ; some said 
he was dishonest, others said he was mad, and he was ridiculed and reviled; 
but all this did not destroy the reality of his vision. He had seen a vision, 
he knew he had, and all the persecution under heaven could not make it 
otherwise ; and though they should persecute him unto death, yet he knew 
and would know unto his latest breath, that he had both seen a light, and 
heard a voice speaking to him, and all the world could not make him think 
or believe otherwise. 

So it was with me, I had actually seen a light, and in the midst of that 
light I saw two personages, and they did in reality speak unto me, or one of 
them did; and though I was hated and persecuted for saying that I had seen 
a vision, yet it was true ; and while they were persecuting me, reviling me, 
and spealdng all manner of evil against me, falsely, for so saying, I was led to 
say in my heart, why persecute for telling the truth ? I have actually seen 
a vision, and * who am I that I can withstand God ? * or why does the world 



think to make me deny what I have actually seen ? for I had seen a vision ; 
I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither 
dare I do it ; at least I knew that by bo doing I would offend God and come 
under condemnation. 

I had now got my mind satisfied so far as the sectarian world was concern- 
ed, that it was not my duty to join with any of them, but continue as I was 
until further directed ; I had found the testimony of James to be true, that 
a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain and not be upbraid- 
ed. I continued to pursue my common avocations in life until the twenty- 
first of September, one thousand eight hundred and twenty-three, all the 
time suffering severe persecution at the hands of all classes of men, both 
religious and irreligious, because I continued to affirm that I had seen a 
vision. 

During the space of time which intervened between the time I had the 
vision, and the year eighteen hundred and twenty-three, (having been forbid- 
den to join any of the religious sects of the day, and being of very tender 
years, and persecuted by those who ought to have been my friends, and to 
have treated me kindly, and if they supposed me to be deluded to have en- 
deavoured, in a proper and affectionate manner, to have reclaimed me,) I was 
left to all kinds of temptations, and mingling with all lands of society, I fre- 
quently fell into many foolish errors, and displayed the weakness of youth, 
and the corruption of human nature, which I am sorry to say led me into 
divers temptations, to the gratification of many appetites offensive in the 
sight of God. In consequence of these things I often felt condemned for my 
weakness and imperfections ; when on the evening of the above mentioned 
twenty-first of September, after I had retired to my bed for the night, I betook 
myself to prayer and supplication to Almighty God, for forgiveness of all my 
gins and follies, and also for a manifestation to me, that I might know of my 
state and standing before him ; for I had full confidence in obtaining a divine 
manifestation, as I had previously had one. 

While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light ap- 
pearing in the room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter 
than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, 
standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. He had on a loose 
robe of most exquisite whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything 
earthly I had ever seen ; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could hje 
made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant ; his hands were naked, 
and his arms also, a little above the wrist ; so, also, were his feet naked, as 
were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. 
I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was 
open, so that I could see into his bosom. 

Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious 
beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room 
was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his per- 



41 



Bon. 



,. (m . When I first looked upon him I was afraid, but the fear soon left me. 
He called me by name and said unto me, that he was a messenger sent from 
the presence of God to roe, and that his name was Nephi. That God had a 
work for me to do, and that my name should be had for good and evil among 
all nations, kindreds, and tongues ; or that it should he both good and evil 
spoken of among all people. He said there was a book deposited, written 
upon gold plates, giving an account of the former inhabitants of this continent, 
and the source from whence they sprang. He also said that, the fulness of 
the everlasting gospel was contained in it, as delivered by the Saviour to the 
ancient inhabitants. Also, that there were two stones in silver bows (and 
these stones, fastened to a breastplate, constituted what is called the Urim 
and Thummim) deposited with the plates, and the possession and use of these 
stones was what constituted Seers in ancient or former times, and that God 
had prepared them for the purpose of translating the book. 

After telling me these things, he commenced quoting the prophecies of the 
Old Testament. He first quoted part of the third chapter of Malachi, and 
he quoted also the fourth or last chapter of the same prophecy, though with 
a little variation from the way it reads in our Bibles. Instead of quoting the first 
verse as it reads in our books, he quoted it thus : 1 For behold the day cometh 
that shall burn as an oven, and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly 
shall bum as stubble, for they that come shall burn them, saith the Lord 
of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch; ' and again, he 
quoted the fifth verse thus : 6 Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood 
by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dread- 
ful day of the Lord.' He also quoted the next verse differently : * And He 
shall plant in the hearts of the children, the promises made to the fathers, 
and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers ; if it were not so, 
the whole earth would be utterly wasted at His coming/ 

In addition to these, he quoted the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, saying that 
it was about to be fulfilled, He quoted, also, the third chapter of Acts, 
twenty-second and twenty-third verses, precisely as they stand in our New 
Testament. He said that that prophet was Christ, but the day had not yet 
come when ' they who would not hear his voice should be cut off from among 
the people, 1 but soon would come. 

He also quoted the second chapter of Joel, from the twenty-eighth to the 
last verse. He also said that this was not yet fulfilled, but was soon to be. 
And he further stated, the fulness of the Gentiles was soon to come in. He 
quoted many other passages of scripture, and offered many explanations which 
cannot be mentioned here. Again, he told me that when I got those plates 
of which he had spoken (for the time that they should be obtained was not 
yet fulfilled) I should not show them to any person, neither the breastplate 
with the Urim and Thummim, only to those to whom I should be commanded 
to show thenr; if I did, I should be destroyed. While he was conversing 
with me about the plates, the vision was opened to my mind that I could see 



42 



the place where the plates were deposited, and that se clearly and distinctly, 
that I knew the place again when I visited it. 

After this communication, I saw the light in the room begin to gather im- 
mediately around the person of lnm who had been speaking to me, and it con- 
tinued to do so, until the room was again left dark, except just around him, 
when instantly I saw, as it were, a conduit open right up into heaven, and 
he ascended up till he entirely disappeared, and the room was left as it had 
been before this heavenly light had made its appearance. 

I lay musing on the singularity of the scene, and marvelling greatly at 
what had been told me by this extraordinary messenger, when, in the midst 
of my meditation, I suddenly discovered that my room was again beginning 
to get lighted, and in an instant, as it were, the same heavenly messenger 
was again by my bed side. He commenced, and again related the very same 
tilings w hich he had done at his first visit, without the least variation, which 
having done, he informed me of great judgments w T hich were coming upon 
the earth, with great desolations by famine, sword, and pestilence, and 
that these grievous judgments would come on the earth in this gene- 
ration. Having related these things, he again ascended as he had done 
before. 

By this time, so deep were the impressions made on my mind, that sleep 
had fled from my eyes, and I lay overwhelmed in astonishment at what I had 
both seen and heard ; but what was my surprise when again I beheld the 
same messenger at my bed side, and heard him rehearse or repeat over again 
to me the same things as before, and added a caution to me, telling me that 
Satan would try to tempt me (hi consequence of the indigent circumstances 
of my father's family) to get the plates for the purpose of getting rich. This 
he forbid me, saying, that I must have no other object in view in getting the 
plates but to glorify God, and must not be influenced by any other motive 
but that of building his kingdom, otherwise I could not get them. After this 
third visit, he again ascended up into heaven as before, and I was again left 
to ponder on the strangeness of what I had just experienced, when almost 
immediately after the heavenly messenger had ascended from me the third 
time, the cock crew, and I found that day was approaching, so that our in- 
terviews must have occupied the whole of that night. I shortly after arose 
from my bed, and, as usual, went to the necessary labours of the day, but, in 
attempting to labour as at other times, I found my strength so exhausted as 
rendered me entirely unable. My father, who was labouring along with me, 
discovered something to be wrong with me, and told me to go home. I 
started with the intention of going to the house, but, in attempting to cross 
the fence out of the field where we were, my strength entirely failed me, and I 
fell helpless on the ground, and for a time was quite unconscious of anyt hin g. 
The first thing that I can recollect, was a voice speaking unto me calling me 
by name ; I looked up and beheld the same messenger standing over my head, 
surrounded by light as before. He then again related unto me all that he 



had related to me the previous night, and commanded mo to go to my father, 
and tell him of the vision and commandments which I had received. 

I obeyed I retured back to my father in the field and rehearsed the whole 
matter to him. He replied to me that it was of God, and to go and do as 
commanded by the messenger. I left the field and went to the place where 
the messenger had told me the plates were deposited, and owing to the dis- 
tinctness of the vision which I had had concerning it, I knew the place the 
instant that I arrived there. Convenient to the village of Manchester, On- 
tario county, New York, stands a hill of considerable size, and the most ele- 
vated of any in the neighbourhood. On the west side of this hill, not far 
from the top, under a stone of considerable size, lay the plates deposited m a 
stone box; this stone was thick and rounding in the middle on the upper 
side and thinner towards the edges, so that the middle part of it was visible 
above the ground, but the edge all round was covered with earth Having 
removed the earth and obtained a lever which I got fixed under the edge ot 
the stone, and with a little exertion raised it up; I looked in and there in- 
deed did I behold the plates, the Urim and Thummim, and the breast-plate 
as stated by the messenger. The box in which they lay was formed by lay- 
ing stones together in some kind of cement. In the bottom of the box were 
lafd two stones crossways of the box, and on these stones lay the plates and 
the other things with them. I made an attempt to take them out, but was 
forbidden by the messenger, and was again informed that the time for bring- 
ing them forth had not yet arrived, neither would until four years from that 
time • but he told me that I should come to that place precisely in one year 
from that time, and that he would there meet with me, and that I should 
continue to do so until the time should come for obtaining the plates. 

Accordingly as I had been commanded, I went at the end of each year, and 
at each time I found the same messenger there, and received insti-uction and 
intelligence from him at each of our interviews, respecting what the Lord was 
going to do, and bow and in what manner his kingdom was to be conducted 

in the last days. . 

\s my father's worldly circumstances were very limited, we were under the 
necessity of labouring with our hand,, hiving by day', work and etherise as we 
could get opportunity; sometimes we were at home and sometimes abroad, 
and by continued labour were enabled to get a comfortable maintenance. 

Tn "the year 1824, my father's family met with a great affliction, by the 
deatl «i Alvin. In the month October, 1825, 1 hired with 

Told gendeman, by the name of Josiah Steal, who lived m Chenango county, 
Ito of New York. He had heard something of a silver mine having been 
opened by the Spaniards, in Harmony, Susquehannah county state of Perm- 
sylvania and had, previous to my hiring with him, been digging in order, if 
possS' to disco e? the mine. After I went to live with him he took me 
« the rest of his hands to dig for the silver mine, at which I continued 
Twofk for nearly a month without success in our undertakmg, and finally 



44 



I prevailed with the old gentleman to cease digging after it. Hence arose 
the very prevalent story of my having been a money digger. 

During the time that I was thus employed, I was put to board with a Mr, 
Isaac Hale, of that place ; it was there thatj, first saw my wife (his daughter) 
Emma Hale, On the 18th of January, 1827, we were married, while yet I 
was employed in the service of Mr. Stoal. 

Owing to my still continuing to assert that I had seen a vision, persecution 
still followed me, and my wife's father's family were very much opposed to 
our being married, I was therefore under the necessity of taking her else- 
where, so we went and were married at the house of Squire Tarbill, in South 
Bainbridge, Chenango county, New York. Immediately after my marriage, 
I left Mr. Steal s and went to my father's and farmed with him that season. 

At length the time arrived for obtaining the Plates, the Urim and Thunv 
mini, and the Breast-plate. On the 22nd day of September, 1827, having 
gone, as usual, at the end of another year, to the place where they were deposi- 
ted ; the same heavenly messenger delivered them up to me with this charge, 
that I should be responsible for them ; that if I should let them go carelessly 
or through any neglect of mine, I should be cut off ; but that if I would use 
all my endeavours to preserve them, until he, the messenger, should call for 
them, they should be protected. 

I soon found out the reason why I had received such strict charges to keep 
them safe, and why it was that the messenger had said, that when I had done 
what was required at my hand, he would call for them ; for no sooner was it 
known that I had them, than the most strenuous exertions w T ere used to get 
them from me ; every stratagem that could be invented was resorted to for 
that purpose ; the persecution became more bitter and severe than before, 
and multitudes were on the alert continually to get them from me if possible ; 
but by the wisdom of God they remained safe in my hands, until I had 
accomplished by them what was required at my hand ; when, according to 
arrangements, the messenger called for them, I delievered them up to him, 
and he has them in his charge until this day, being the 2nd day of May 
1838. 

The excitement, however, still continued, and rumour with her thousand 
tongues was aU the time employed in circulating tales about my father's 
family, and about myself. If I were to relate a thousandth part of them, it 
would fill up volumes. The persecution, however, became so intolerable that 
I was under the necessity of leaving Manchester, and going with my wife to 
Susquehannah county, in the state of Pennsylvania ; while preparing to start 
(being very poor, and the persecution so heavy upon us, that there was no 
probability that we would ever be otherwise)* in the midst of our afflictions 
we found a friend in a gentleman, by the name of Martin Harris, who came 
to us and gave me fifty dollars to assist us in our afflictions, Mr. Harris was a 
resident of Palmyra township, Wayne county, in the state of New York, and 
a farmer of respectability. By this timely aid was I enabled to reach the 



45 



place of my destination in Pennsylvania, and immediately after my arrival 
there, I commenced copying the characters of the plates. I copied a con- 
siderable number of them, and by means of the Urim and Thummim I trans- 
lated some of them, which I did between the time I arrived at the house of 
my wife's father in the month of December, and the February following. 

Some time in this month of February, the aforementioned Mr. Martin 
Harris came to our place, got the characters which I had drawn off the plates, 
and started with them to the city of New York, For what took place relative 
to him and the characters, I refer to his own account of the circumstances as 
he related them to me after his return, which was as follows : — 

* I went to the city of New York, and presented the characters which had 
been translated, with the translation thereof, to Professor Anthon, a gentle- 
man celebrated for his literary attainments. Professor Anthon stated that 
the translation was correct, more so than any he had before seen translated 
from the Egyptian. I then showed him those which were not yet translated, 
and he said that they were Egyptian, Chaldaic, Assyriac, and Arabic, and he 
said that they were the true characters. He gave me a certificate, certifying 
to the people of Palmyra that they were true characters, and that the transla- 
tion of such of them as had been translated was also correct. I took the 
certificate and put it into my pocket, and was just leaving the house, when 
Mr. Anthon called me back, and asked me how the young man found out 
that there were gold plates in the place where he found them. I answered 
that an angel of God had revealed it unto him. 

* He then said unto me, let me see that certificate, I accordingly took it 
out of my pocket and gave it to him, when he took it and tore it to pieces, 
saying that there was no such thing now as ministering of angels, and that if 
I would bring the plates to him, he would translate them. I informed him 
that part of the plates were sealed, and that I was forbidden to bring them, 
he replied * I cannot read a sealed book. 1 I left him and went to Dr. Mitchell 
who sanctioned what Professor Anthon had said respecting both the charac- 
ters and the translation.' 

" On the 15th day of April, 1829, Oliver Cowdery came to my house, until 
when I had never seen him. He stated to me that having been teach- 
ing school in the neighbourhood where my father resided, and my father 
being one of those who sent to the school, he went to board for a season at 
his house, and while there, the family related to him the circumstance of 
my having received the plates, and accordingly he had come to make en- 
quiries of me. 

Two days after the arrival of Mr. Cowdery, (being the 17th of April,) I 
commenced to translate the Book of Mormon, and he commenced to write 

for me." , _ 

"We still continued the work of translation, when, m the ensuing month, 
(May, 1829,) we on a certain day went into the woods to pray and inquire of 
the Lord respecting baptism for the remission of sins, as we found mentioned 



46 



in the translation of the plates. While we were thus employed, praying and 
calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of 
light, and having laid his hands upon us, he ordained us, saying unto us, 
* Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer the Priest- 
* hood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the 
gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of mm ; 
and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do 
offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness He said this 
Aaronic priesthood had not the power of laying on of hands for the gift of 
the Holy Ghost, but that this should be conferred on us hereafter ; and he 
commanded us to go and be baptized, and gave us directions that I should 
baptize Oliver Cowdery, and afterwards that he should baptize me. 

Accordingly we went and were baptized — I baptized him first, and after- 
wards he baptized me — after which I laid my hands upon his head and or- 
dained liim to the Aaronic priesthood, and afterwards he laid his hands on me 
and ordained me to the same priesthood — for so we were commanded, * 

* Oliver Cowdery describes these events thus — ** These were days never to be for- 
gotten — to sit under tbe sound of a voice dictated by the inspiration of heaven, awakened 
the utmost gratitude of this bosom ! Day after day I continued, uninterrupted, to write 
from his mouth, as he translated with the TJrini and Thummim, or, as the Nephites would 
have said, 'Interpreters/ the history or record called 'The Book of Mormon/ 

"To notice, in even few words, the interesting account given by Mormon and his faith- 
ful son Moroni, of a people once beloved and favoured of heaven, would supersede my 
present design ; I shall therefore defer this to a future period, and as I said in the intro- 
duction, pass more directly to some few incidents immediately connected with the rise of this 
Church, which may be entertaining to some thousands who have stepped forward amid 
tbe frowns of bigots and the calumny of hypocrites, and embraced the gospel of Christ. 

w No men, in their sober senses, could translate and write the directions given to the 
Nephites from the mouth of the Saviour of the precise manner in which men should build 
up his church, and especially when corruption had spread an uncertainty over alL forms 
and systems practised among men, without desiring a privilege of showing the willingness 
of the heart by being buried in the liquid grave, to answer a 'good conscience by the re- 
surrection of Jesus Christ.' 

" After writing the account given of the Saviour's ministry to the remnant of the seed 
of Jacob, upon this continent, it was easily to be seen, as the prophet said would be, 
that darkness covered the earth and gross darkness the minds of the people. On reflect- 
ing further it was as easily to be seen, that amid the great strife and noise concerning 
religion, none had authority from God to administer the ordinances of the gospel. For 
the question might be asked, have men authority to administer in the name of Christ, who 
deny revelations ? when Ms testimony is no less than the Spirit of Prophecy ? and his reli- 
gion based, built, and sustained by immediate revelations in all ages of the world, when 
he has had a people on earth ? If these facts were buried, and carefully concealed by 
men whose craft would have been in danger if once permitted to shine in the faces of men, 
they were no longer to us ; and we only waited for the commandment to be given, * arise 
and be baptized,' 

** This was not long desired before it was realised* The Lordj who is rich in mercy, 
and ever willing to answer the consistent prayer of the humble, after we had called upon 
him in a fervent manner, aside from the abodes of men, condescended to manifest to us 



47 



The messenger who visited us on this occasion, and conferred this priest- 
hood upon us, said that his name was John, the same that is called John the 
Baptist in the New Testament, and that he acted under the direction of 
Peter James, and John, who held the keys of the priesthood of Melchisedeck, 
which priesthood he said should in due time be conferred on ua, and that I . 
should be called the first elder and he the second. It was on the 15th day 
of May, 1829, that we were baptized ; and ordained under the hand of the 

messenger. x 

Immediately upon our coming up out of the water, after we had been bap- 
tized, we experienced great and glorious blessings from our heavenly Father. 
No sooner had I baptized Oliver Cowdery than the Holy Ghost fell upon 
him, and he stood up and prophesied many things which should shortly come 

hia will On a sudden, as from the midst of eternity, the voice of the Redeemer spake 
peace to as, while the vail was parted and the angel of God came down clothed with 
fflorv and delivered the anxiously looked for message, and the keys of the gospel of repen- 
tance I What jo, ! what wonder I what amazement ! While the world was racked and 
distracted-while millions were groping as the blind for the wall, and while all men were 
resting npon uncertainty, as a general mass, onr eyes heheld, our ears heard^ As m t h e 
•blaze of day;' yes, more-above the glitter of the May snnheam, which then shed its 
brilliancy over the face of nature! Then his voice, though mild, pierced to the centre, 
and his words, 'I am thy fellow-servant,' dispelled every fear. We listened, we gazed, 
we admired! 'Twas the voice of an angel from glory, 'twas a message from the Most 
High t and as we heard we rejoiced, while his love enkindled upon onr souls, and we were 
wrapt in the vision of the Almighty I Where was room for doubt ? Nowhere - uncer- 
tainty had fled, doubt had sunk no more to rise, while fiction and deception had fled for 

^''Bnt dear brother think, further think for a moment, what joy filled our hearts, and 
with what surprise we must have bowed, (for who would not have bowed the knee for 
such a blessing?) when we received under his hand the Holy Priesthood as he said, upon 
you my fellow-servants, in the name of Messiah, I confer this Priesthood and this autho- 
rity, which shall remain npon earth, that the sons of Levi ma, yet offer an offering unto 
the Lord in righteousness 1' 

" I shall not attempt to paint to you the feelings of this heart, nor the majestic beauty 
and glory which surrounded us on this occasion; but you will bebeve me when I 
say. that earth, nor men, with the eloquence of time, cannot begin to clothe language in 
as interesting and sublime a manner as this holy personage. No; nor has th.s earth 
newer to give the joy, to bestow the peace, or comprehend the wisdom which was con- 
tained in each sentence as they were deUvered by the power of the Ho!, Spirit ! Man 
may deceive his fellow-man, deception ma, follow deception, and the children of the 
wicked one may haye power to seduce the foolish and untaught, till naught but fiction 
feeds the many and the fruit of falsehood carries in its current the giddy to the grave; 
but one touch with the finger of his love, yes, one ray of glory from the upper wor d or 
one word from the mouth of the Saviour, from the bosom of eternity, strikes it all into 
insignificance, and blots it for ever from the mind! The assurance that we were in the 
presence of an angel; the certainty that we heard the voice of Jesus, and the truth unsul- 
Ld as it flowed from a pure personage, dictated by the will of God is to me past deser- 
tion and I shall ever look upon this expression of the Saviour's goodness with wonder and 
thanksgiving while I am permitted to tarry ; and in those mansions where perfection dwells 
and sin never comes, I hope to adore in that day which shall never cease *• * * P- 



48 



to pass. And again, so soon as I had been baptized by him, I also had the 
spirit of prophecy, when, standing up, I prophesied concerning the rise of 
the Church, and many other things connected with the Church and this 
generation of the children of men. We were filled with the Holy Ghost, 
and rejoiced in the God of our salvation. 

Our minds being now enlightened, we began to have the scriptures laid 
open to our unders tan dings, and the true meaning of their more mysterious 
passages revealed unto us in a manner which we never could attaiu to pre- 
viously, nor ever before had thought of. In the meantime we were forced to 
keep secret the circumstances of our having been baptized and having re- 
ceived the priesthood, owing to a spirit of persecution which had already 
manifested itself in the neighbourhood. We had been threatened with being 
mobbed, from time to time, and this too by professors of religion, And their 
intentions of mobbing us were only counteracted by the influence of my wife's 
father's family, (under Divine Providence,) who had become very friendly to 
me, and who were opposed to mobs, and were willing that I should be allow- 
ed to continue the work of translation without interruption ; and therefore 
offered and promised us protection from all unlawful proceedings as far as in 
them lay.' 1 



From the doctrine and covenants of the church. 
Commandment to the Church concerning Baptism. 

" No one can be received into the church of Christ, unless he has arrived 
unto the years of accountability before God, and is capable of repentance. 

All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, 
and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before 
the church that they have truly repented of all their sins and are willing to, 
take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve 
him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of 
the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shall be received by bap- 
tism into His church. 

Baptism is to be administered in the following manner unto all those who 
repent : — The person who is called of God, and has authority from Jesus 
Christ to baptize, shall go down into the water with the person who has pre- 
sented him or herself for baptism, and shall say, calling him or her by name : 
Having been commissioned of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the 
Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Then shall he im- 
merse him or her in the water, and come forth again out of the water. 



49 



The duties of the member* after they are received by baptism. 

" The Elders or Priests are to have a sufficient time to expound all things 
concerning the Church of Christ to their understanding, previous to their 
partaking of the sacrament, and being confirmed by the laying on of the 
hands of the Elders ; so that all things may be done in order. And the 
members shall manifest before the Church and also before the Elders, by a 
godly walk and conversation, that they are worthy of it, that there may be 
works and faith agreeable to the holy scriptures, — walking in holiness before 
the Lord." 

Method of administering the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. 

* 4 It is expedient that the Church meet together often to partake of bread 
and wine in remembrance of the Lord Jesus ; and the Elder or Priest shall 
administer it ; and after this manner shall he administer it : he shall kneel 
with the Church and call upon the Father in solemn prayer, saying, O God, 
the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son Jesus Christ to bless 
and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they 
may eat in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O 
God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name 
of thy Son, and always remember Him and keep his commandments which 
He has given them, that they may always have liis Spirit to be with them. 
Amen. 

The manner of administering the wine : He shall take the cup also, and 
aay, — O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son Jesus 
Christ, to bless and sanctify this wine to the souls of all those who drink of 
it, that they may do it in remembrance of the blood of thy Son, which was 
shed for them, that they may witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, 
that they do always remember Him, that they may have his Spirit to be with 
them. Amen." 

The duties of the Elders, Priests, Teachers, Deacons, and Members of the 

Church of Christ. 

" An Apostle is an Elder, and it is his calling to baptize, and to ordain other 
Elders, Priests, Teachers, and Deacons, and to administer bread and wine— 
the emblems of the flesh and blood of Christ— and to confirm those who are 
baptized into the Church, by the laying on of hands for the baptism of fixe 
and the Holy Ghost, according to the scriptures; and to teach, expound, 
exhort, baptize, and watch over the Church ; and to confirm the Church by 
the laying on of the hands, and the giving of the Holy Ghost ; and to take 
the lead of all meetings." 

" An Elder has a right to officiate in his stead, when the High Priest is not 

present." 

E 



50 



" The Elders are to conduct the meetings as they are led by the Holy Ghost, 
according to the commandments and revelations of God. 

The Priest's duty is to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and 
administer the Sacrament, and visit the house of each member, and exhort 
them to pray vocally and in secret, and attend to all family duties : and he 
may also ordain other Priests, Teachers, and Deacons ; and he is to take the 
lead of meetings when there is no Elder present, but when there is an Elder 
present he is only to preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and visit 
the house of each member, exhorting them to pray vocally and in secret, and 
attend to all family duties. In all these duties the Priest is to assist the 
Elder if occasion requires. 

The Teacher s duty is to watch over the Church always, and be with, and 
strengthen them, and see that there is no iniquity in the Church, neither 
hardness with each other ; neither lying, backbiting nor evil speaking ; and 
see that the Church meet together often, and also see that all the members 
do their duty ; and he is to take the lead of meetings in the absence of the 
Elder or Priest, and is to be assisted always, in all his duties in the Church, 
by the Deacons, if occasion requires : but neither Teachers nor Deacons have 
authority to baptize, administer the Sacrament, or lay on hands ; they are, 
however, to warn, expound, exhort, and teach, and invite all to come unto 
Christ" 

" Every member of the Church of Christ having children, is to bring them 
unto the Elders before the Church, who are to lay their hands upon them in 
the name of Jesus Christ, and bless them in His name." 

" Any member of the Church of Christ transgressing, or being overtaken 
in a fault, shall be dealt with as the scriptures direct." 

On Priesthood, 

" There are, in the Church, two Priesthoods, namely : the Melchisedek, and 
the Aaronic, including the Levitical Priesthood. Why the first is called the 
Melchisedek Priesthood, is because Melchisedek was such a great High Priest : 
before his day it was called the Holy Priesthood, after the order of the Son of 
God; but out of respect or reverence to the name of the Supreme Being, to 
avoid the too frequent repetition of His name, they, the Church, in ancient 
days, called that Priesthood after Melchisedek, or the Melchisedek Priest- 
hood. 

All other authorities, or offices in the Church, are appendages to this Priest- 
hood ; but there are two divisions, or grand heads — one is the Melchisedek 
Priesthood, and the other is the Aaronic, or Levitical Priesthood. 

The office of an Elder comes under the Priesthood of Melchisedek. The 
Melchisedek Priesthood holds the right of presidency, and has power and au- 
thority over all the offices in the Church, in all ages of the world, to adminis- 
ter in spiritual things. 



51 

The Presidency of the High Priesthood, after the order of Melchisedek, 
have a right to officiate in all the offices in the Church. 

High Priests, after the order of the Melchisedek Priesthood, have a right 
to officiate in their own standing, under the direction of the Presidency, in 
administering spiritual things, and also in the office of an Elder, Priest, (of 
the Levitical order,) Teacher, Deacon and member." 

" The High Priest, and Elder, are to administer in spiritual things, agreeably 
to the covenants and. commandments of the Church ; and they have a right 
to officiate in all these offices of the Church when there are no higher autho- 
rities present. 

The second Priesthood is called the Priesthood of Aaron, because it was 
conferred upon Aaron and his seed, throughout all their generations. Why 
it is called the lesser Priesthood, is because it is an appendage to the greater, 
or the Melchisedek Priesthood, and has power in administering outward or- 
dinances. The Bishopric is the Presidency of this Priesthood, and holds the 
keys, or authority, of the same. No man has a legal right to this office, to 
hoid the keys of this Priesthood, except he be a literal descendant of Aaron, 
But as a High Priest, of the Melchisedek Priesthood, has authority to officiate 
in all the lesser offices, he may officiate in the office of Bishop when no literal 
descendant of Aaron can be found ; provided he is called and set apart and 
ordained unto this power by the hands of the Presidency of the Melchisedek 
Priesthood. 

The power and authority of the higher or Melchisedek Priesthood, is to 
hold the keys of all the spiritual blessings of the Church— to have the privi- 
lege of receiving the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven— to have the hea- 
vens opened unto them— to commune with the General Assembly and Church 
of the First-born, and to enjoy the communion and presence of God the 
Father, aod Jesus Christ the Mediator of the new covenant. 

The power and authority of the lesser, or Aaronic Priesthood, is to hold 
the keys of the ministering of angels, and to administer in outward ordinances 
—the letter of the gospel— the baptism of repentance for the remission of 
sins, agreeably to the covenants and commandments," 

The Calling and Duties of the Twelve Apostles. 

«« The Twelve travelling counsellors are called to be the Twelve Apostles, 
or especial witnesses of the name of Christ in all the world ; thus differing 
from other officers in the Church in the duties of their calling." 

" The Twelve are a Travelling, Presiding, High Council ; to officiate in tbe 
name of the Lord, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, agree- 
ably to the institution of heaven ; to build up the Church, and regulate all the 
affairs of the same, in all nations : first unto the Gentiles, and secondly unto 
the Jews." 



52 



The Calling and Duties of the Seventy, 

" The Seventy are to act in the name of the Lord, under the direction of the 
Twelve, or the Travelling High Council, in building up the Church and regula- 
ting all the affairs of the same, in all nations : first unto the Gentiles and 
then to the Jews : — the Twelve being sent out, holding the keys, to open the 
door by the proclamation of the Gospel of Jesus Christ ; and first unto the 
Gentiles and then unto the Jews. 

And it is according to the vision, showing the order of the Seventy, that 
they should have seven presidents to preside over them, chosen out of the 
number of the seventy, and the seventh president of these presidents is to 
preside over the six ; and these seven presidents are to choose other seventy 
besides the first seventy, to whom they belong, and are to preside over them ; 
and also other seventy until seven time seventy, if the labor in the vineyard of 
necessity requires it. And these seventies are to be travelling ministers unto 
the Gentiles first, and also unto the Jews ; whereas, other officers of the church 
who belong not unto the twelve, neither to the seventy, are not under the 
responsibility to travel among all nations, but are to travel as their circum- 
stances shall allow , notwithstanding they may hold as high and responsible 
offices in the church. 

Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in 
which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be 
counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself 
not approved, shall not be counted worthy to stand ; even so. Amen," 



Extract from a Revelation given July, 1830. 

" Behold, this is wisdom in me : wherefore marvel not, for the hour cometh 
that I will drink of the fruit of the vine with you on the earth, and with Mo- 
roni, whom 1 have sent unto you to reveal the Book of Mormon, containing 
the fulness of my everlasting gospel ; to whom I have committed the keys of 
the record of the stick of Ephraini ; and also with Elias, to whom I have 
committed the keys of bringing to pass the restoration of all things, or the 
restorer of all things spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets since' the 
world began, concerning the last days : and also John, the son of Zacharias, 
which Zacharias he (Elias) visited and gave promise that he should have a 
eon, and his name should be John, and he should be filled with the spirit of 
Elias ; which John I have sent unto you, my servants, Joseph Smith, jun., 
and Oliver Cowdery, to ordain you unto this first Priesthood which you have 
received, that you might be called and ordained even as Aaron : and also Eli- 
]ah, unto whom I have committed the keys of the power of turning the hearts 
of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, 
that the whole earth may not be smitten with a curse : and also with Joseph, 
and Jacob, and Isaac, and Abraham, your fathers : by whom the promises re- 
main ; and also with Michael, or Adam, the father of all, the prince of all. 



53 

the ancient of days : and also with Peter, and James, and John, whom I have 
sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be Apos- 
tles and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry i 
and of the same things which I revealed unto them, unto whom I have com- 
mitted the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last 
times ; and for the fulness of times, in the which I will gather together in one 
all things, both which are in heaven and which are on earth : and also with 
all those whom my Father hath given me out of the world ; wherefore, lift up 
your hearts and rejoice, and gird up your loins, and take upon you my whole 
armour, that ye may be able to withstand the evil day, having done all ye 
may be able to stand. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with 
truth ; having on the breastplate of righteousness ; and your feet shod with 
the preparation of the gospel of peace, which I have sent mine angels to com- 
mit unto you ; taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench 
all the fierv darts of the wicked ; and take the helmet of salvation, and the 
sword of my Spirit, which I will pour out upon you, and my word which I re- 
vealed unto you ; and be agreed as touching all things whatsoever ye ask of 
me, and be faithful until I come, and ye shall be caught up, that where I am 
ye shall be also. Amen." 



Rise of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Sa ints. 

* £ The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand 
eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Saviour 
Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established, agree- 
ably to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in 
the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month, which is called April ; 
which commandments were given to Joseph Smith, jun., who was called of 
God and ordained an apostle of Jesus Clirist, to be the first Elder of this 
Church ; and to Oliver Cowdery, who was also called of God an apostle of 
Jesus Christ, to be the second Elder of this Church, and ordained under Ins 
hand ; and this according to the grace of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, 
to whom be all glory, both now and for ever. Amen. 

After it was truly manifested unto this first FJder that he had received a 
remission of Ms sins, he was entangled again in the vanities of the world ; 
but after repenting, and humbling himself sincerely, through faith, God 
ministered unto him by an holy angel, whose countenance was as lightning, 
and whose garments were pure and white above all other whiteness, and gave 
unto him commandments which inspired him, and gave him power from on 
high, by the means which were before prepared, to translate the Book of 
Mormon, which contains a record of a fallen people, and the fulness of the 
Gospel of Jesus "Christ to the Gentiles, and to the Jews also, which was given 
by inspiration, and is confirmed to others by the ministering of angels, and 
is declared unto the world by them, proving to the world that the Holy Scrip- 



54 



t U res are true, and that God does inspire men and call them to his holy work 
in this age and generation, as well as in generations of old, thereby shewing 
that he is the same God yesterday, to-day, and for ever. Amen. 

Therefore having eo great witnesses, by them shall the world be judged, 
even as many as shall hereafter come to a knowledge of this work ; and those 
who receive it in faith and work righteousness, shall receive a crown of eter- 
nal life ; hut those who harden their hearts in unbelief and reject it, it shall 
turn to their own condemnation, for the Lord God has spoken it ; and we, 
the Elders of the Church, have heard and bear witness to the words of the 
glorious Majesty on high, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 

By these tilings we know that there is a God in heaven who is infinite and 
eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the 
framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them, and that he 
created man male and female ; after his own image and in his own likeness 
created he them, and gave unto them commandments that they should love 
and serve him the only living and true God, and that he shonld be the only 
being whom they should worship. But by the transgression of these holy 
laws, man became sensual and devilish, and became fallen man. 

Wherefore the Almighty God gave his only begotten Son, as it is written 
in those Scriptures which have been given of him ; he suffered temptations 
but gave no heed unto them ; he was crucified, died, and rose again the third 
day ; and ascended into heaven to sit down on the right hand of the Father, 
to reign with almighty power according to the will of the Father, that as 
many as would believe and be baptized in his holy name, and endure in faith 
to the end should be saved ; not only those who believed after he came in 
the meridian of time in the flesh, but all those from the beginning, even as 
many as were before he came, who believed in the words of the holy prophets, 
who spake as they were inspired by the gift of the Holy Ghost, who truly tes- 
tified of him in all things should have eternal life, as well as those who should 
come after, who should believe in the gifts and callings of God by the Holy 
Ghost, which beareth record of the Father, and of the Son, which Father, 
Son, and Holy Ghost are one God, infinite and eternal, without end. Amen. 

And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus 
Christ and worship the Father in his name, and endure in faith on his name 
to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. And we know 
that justification through the grace of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, is 
just and true ; and we know, also, that sanctification through the grace of 
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, is just and true, to all those who love and 
serve God with all their mights, minds, and strength ; but there is a possi- 
bility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God, There- 
fore let the Church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptations ; 
yea, and even let those who are sanctified take heed also. And we know that 
these things are true and according to the revelations of John, neither adding 
to, nor diminishing from the prophecy of his book, the Holy Scriptures, or the 



55 



Revelations of God which shall come hereafter by the gift and power of the 
Holy Ghost, the voice of God, or the ministering of angels ; and the Lord 
God has spoken it ; and honour, power and glory, be rendered to his holy 
name, both now and ever. Amen," 



" Times and Seasons" Vol, Ill, page 709. 

" We believe in God the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, and 
in the Holy Ghost. 

We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for 
Adam's transgression. 

We believe that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be 
saved by obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. 

We believe that these ordinance arc : 1st, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ ; 
2d, Repentance : 3d, Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins : 4th, 
Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. 

We believe that a man must be called of God by " prophesy, and by laying 
on of hands " by those who are in authority to preach the gospel and admi- 
nister in the ordinances thereof. 

We believe in the same organization that existed in the primitive Church, 
viz : Apostles, Prophets, Pastors, Teachers, Evangelists, &c. 

We believe in the gifts of tongues, prophesy, revelation, visions, healing, 
interpretation of tongues, ka. 

We believe the Bible to be the word of God as far as it is translated 
correctly ; we also believe the Book of Mormon to be the word of God. 

We believe all that God has revealed, all that he does now reveal, and we 
believe that he will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining 
to the Kingdom of God. 

We believe in the literal gathering of Israel, and in the restoration of the 
Ten Tribes. That Zion will be built upon this (American) continent. That 
Christ will reign personally upon the earth, and that the earth will be re- 
newed and receive its paradisiac glory. 

We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God according to the dic- 
tates of our conscience, and allow all men the same privilege let them worship 
how, where, or what they may. 

We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, 
in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law. 

We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in 
doing good to all men ; indeed we may say that we follow the admonition of 
Paul " we believe all things we hope all things;" we have endured many 
things and hope to be able to endure all things. If there is anything vir- 
tuous, lovely, or of good report, or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." 

Joseph Smith. 



TRUTH. 



Oh ! say, what is truth ? "lis the fairest gem, 

That the riches of worlds can produce ; 
And priceless the value of truth will be, when 
The proud monarch's costliest diadem, 

Is counted hut dross and refuse. 

Yes, say, what is truth? 'Tib the brightest prize 

To which mortals or Gods can aspire ; 
Gro search in the depths where it glittering lies, 
Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies, 

'Tis an aim for the noblest desire* 

The sceptre may fall from the despot's grasp, 
When with winds of stern justice he copes ; 
But the pillar of truth will endure to the last, 
And its firm-rooted bulwarks outstand the rude blast, 
And the wreck of the fell tyrant's hopes. 

Then say, what is truth? *Tis the last and the first, 

For the limits of time it steps o'er ; 
Though the heavens depart, and the earth's fountains burst. 
Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, 

Eternal, unchanged, evermore. 

John Jaques. 
